and factors affecting infant mycobiotabirth modewhether an infant is born vaginally or through caesarean delivery c-section most drastically affects the compositionof their associated bacterial communities over the first 6 months of life - for example in a study of 98 mother-infant pairs vaginally-born infants had less fecal enterobacter haemophilus staphylococcus streptococcus and veillonella species and had increased bacteroides bifidobacterium parabacteroides and escherichia compared to infants born by c-section in this same study vertical transmission of the mother's fecal microbiota was likely the most significant contributor to the difference between vaginally and c-section-born infants as 72 of bacteria colonizing feces of vaginally-born infants were present in their mother's fecal microbiome as compared to only 41 for c-section-born infants.vertical transmission of fungi from mother to infant has been most extensively studied with regard to the fungal species candida albicans.

of note only 6.6 of these women were positive for candida by culture highlighting the limitations of fungal community analysis using culture-based approaches in another screen of asymptomatic women without a history of vaginal candidia- sis 40 n  52 of the sampled individuals carried at least one isolate of candida 90 of which were c. albicans in their genital tracts vulva or vagina as determined by dna fingerprinting of cultured candida to our knowledge there has only been one published broad survey of the vagi- nal mycobiome using the its region in this survey ofhealthy women n  251 candida was the predominant genus and was present in 68 of samples followed by davidiella cladosporium and other less abundant fungi fig.

the observation of shared taxa between adults and infants provides support for the hypothesis of vertical transmission of gi mycobiota from mother to infant.in c-section born infants the bacterial microbiota ofthe skin and gi tract are more similar to those of the mother's skin if this also holds true for the myco- biome the skin and gi tract mycobiomes of c-section born infants would be expected to be dominated by malassezia in a longitudinal study of infants that investigated skin colonization with malassezia by malassezia-specific pcr two species m. restricta andm.

.gestational age at deliverygestational age at delivery has been shown to impact the bacterial microbiota including initial community dif- ferences and the pace of bacterial community matur- ation but differences are often resolved by 2 years of age when the bacterial community has reached an adult-like state - for infants born at an early gestational age the health impact of intestinal fungi is particularly significant as the incidence of invasivesystemic candidiasis in these infants is approximately 10 with an associated mortality rate of approximately 20 susceptibility to invasive infection has been correlated with relative overgrowth of fungi especially within the gi tract - as well as the presence of several predisposing clinical factors including a naive immune system bacterial dysbiosis due to antibiotic exposure and use of parenteral nutrition among other factors fig.

for studies using its1 sequencing however it should be noted that such sequences are somewhat biased toward identification of basidiomycetous fungi such as malassezia whereas its2 sequences favor identification of ascomycetous fungi such as most other human- associated fungi including candida .

simi- larly in healthy controls n  12 from an its sequence- based survey of obese and lean individuals  mucor candida penicillium wallemia bettsia and cladoporium were the predominant genera in feces along with more minor members and the healthy controls n  55 from a study of hepatitis-infected individuals were colonized with saccharomyces candida aspergillus malassezia penicil- lium and an uncharacterized fungus as determined by 18s restriction fragment length polymorphism rflp analysis the adult gi mycobiome as characterized by its1 sequencing has also been shown to contain candida penicillium aspergillus malassezia debaryomyces mucor eremothecium pichia and cyberlindnera healthy controls n  29 31. further saccharomyces and penicillium species were also detected by denaturing gradient gel electrophor- esis and 18s rdna sequence analysis of fecal samples from healthy adults along with other fungal genera and candida species predominated in a study of 45 adult fecal samples using its sequencing .

importantly overgrowth of fungi leading to infections is more common in infants than adults and can result in significant morbidity and mortality in at-risk infants such as those born prematurely -.

a longitudinal study of 14 infants also showed fungi to be present in the feces of all infants at most time points at a density of 104-106 rrna genesg of feces over the first 200 days of life this is in contrast to the 109-1010 bac- terial rrna genesg of feces reported for the same samples.

therefore given the diversity of the adult oral mycobiome we can hypothesize that the oral mycobiome of infants likely con- tains other taxa in addition to candida and that the oral mycobiome of infants is likely dynamic with changes es- pecially noticeable as the infant transitions to a more adult-like diet fig.

despite one study reporting a lack of fungi in the infant gi tract we conclude that most infants do harbor gi fungi fig.

tropicalis cladosporium c. sphaerospermum and c. tenuissimum and cryptococcus c. albidosimilas and c. podzolicus similarly in a study of 11 infant fecal sam- ples using fungal-specific pcr along with its2-based se- quence analysis fungi were observed in all samples with c. albicans being the predominant species followed by c. parapsilosis c. krusei and leptosphaerulina penicil- lium aspergillus candida debaryomyces malassezia ascomycota eurotiomycetes tremellomycetes nectriaceae and trichosporon were also observed in an its1 survey of infants under 2 years of age and the presence of many spe- cific taxa was confirmed by culture-based methods .

in infants born at early gestational ages beneficial fungi such as s. boulardii may help to regulate the growth of opportunis- tic fungal colonizers such as candida.

in one study of 100 healthy infants 12 were orally colonized with candida by 4 weeks of age and colonization prevalence rates did not change over the first 6 months of life other studies also show oral candida colonization rates to be low at birth but to rise over time to adult carriage rates within the first year of life  .

in in- fants oral colonization with fungi has only been studied using culture-dependent methods with candida species appearing to be the predominant fungi although this finding may be biased because these species grow most easily on certain growth media.

without these mechanisms of regulation oppor- tunistic fungi such as candida can outgrow their occu- pied niche and initiate immune responses or cause acute infections especially in immunocompromised individuals including premature infants.the converse relationship that fungi affect bacterial colonization is also true as recent animal experiments showed c. albicans colonization of the gi tract to be as- sociated with altered bacterial repopulation following cefoperazone treatment including increased entero- coccus faecalis levels and a lack of lactobacillus recovery specific bacterial and fungal taxa have also been shown to co-occur outside the scope of antimicrobial ex- posure.

