using these methods we obtained measures of intracranial volume total gray matter total white matter total cerebrospinal fluid lateral ventricle volume and 90-region gray matter volumes at 1 year of age for 46 subjects and at 2 years of age for 27 subjects.association of cognitive and brain outcomes with cluster membership and alpha diversitylinear mixed effect models were used to test for effects of cluster membership and alpha diversity on cognitive perfor- mance and brain volumes as well as cluster membership on alpha diversity.

sensitivity analyses were conducted to determine the effect of cluster independent of alpha diversity or alpha diversity independent of cluster by including either cluster membership or alpha diversity metrics as a covariate in the reciprocal analyses.

fpd si os and ch1 were all significantly different between clusters with c1 showing the greatest alpha diversity and c2 showing the least .sensitivity analyseswe conducted analyses to determine if cluster membership or alpha diversity had the larger impact on outcomes by including either cluster or individual alpha diversity metrics as a covari- ate.

we also predicted that lower alpha diversity indicating a less mature microbiome would be correlated with lower cognitive performance given reports that low alpha diversity in infancy precede negative health outcomes including type 1 diabetes and asthma .

to better understand the unique community dynamics of each cluster we used one representative genera from each cluster as a seed to generate co-occurrence networks via spearmancorrelations details in supplemental methods and materials in supplement 1.cognitive testingthe mullen consists of five separate scales with their own age- group standardized normative t scores and percentiles and an early learning cognitive composite elc similar to an iq score or the bayley mental development index .

demographic and medical variables associated with cluster membership or alpha diversity and neuroimaging or cognitive outcomes were included as covariates see supplemental methods and materials in supplement 1.metagenome prediction from phylogenetic investigation of communities by reconstruction of unobserved statesphylogenetic investigation of communities by reconstruction of unobserved states picrust was used to predict meta- genome functional content from the 16s ribosomal rna sequencing data .

clusters differed in the abundance of many genera table s1 in supplement 1 with cluster 1 c1 characterized by a relatively high abundance of faecalibacte- rium cluster 2 c2 by a relatively high abundance of bacter- oides and cluster 3 c3 by a relatively high abundance of an unnamed genus in the family ruminococcaceae.

finally we per- formed an analysis of 1-year cognitive outcome by cluster in a subset of subjects also with data at 2 years n  69 figure s1 in supplement 1. results remained null in this group.discussionthere is increasing agreement from preclinical work that the gut microbiota influences brain development during a critical period in early life resulting in long-term changes in behavior.

archival reportinfant gut microbiome associated with cognitive developmentalexander l. carlson kai xia m. andrea azcarate-peril barbara d. goldmanmihye ahn martin a. styner amanda l. thompson xiujuan geng john h. gilmore and rebecca c. knickmeyerabstractbackground studies in rodents provide compelling evidence that microorganisms inhabiting the gut influence neurodevelopment.

in particular the cluster with increased abundance of bacteroides mayreflect a subgroup of children with delayed maturation of the gut microbiome given recent reports that the first 2 years of life are characterized by a succession of bacterial taxa in which facultative aerobic enterobacteriaceae give way to strict anaerobes including bacteroides which are then displaced by a diverse mixture of clostridiales including ruminococcaceae faecalibacterium and lachnospira .the environmental and genetic factors influencing cluster membership were not a primary focus of the current study but we did investigate a number of potentially important demographic medical history and feeding history variables.

all cognitive data were screened for quality control and no data warranted exclusion from this study see supplemental methods and materials in supplement 1. this provided cognitive data for 86 subjects at 1 year of age and 69 subjects at 2 years of age.structural image acquisitiont1-weighted images were acquired on a siemens head-only 3t tim-trio scanner siemens medical system erlangen germany during unsedated natural sleep median age at scan1  12.8 months median age at scan 2  25.1 months.

alternative explanations for finding associations at 2 years but not 1 year include less accurate cognitive assessment at age 1 because of greater reliance on parental report or that scores at 1 year represent individual differences in maturational pace whereas scores at 2 may represent more persistent differences in cognitive ability.picrust analysis suggested mechanisms that might un- derlie microbial effects on neurodevelopment.

the other authors report no biomedical financial interests or potential conflicts of interest.article informationfrom the neuroscience curriculum alc departments of psychiatry kx mas jhg rck medicine maa-p psychology and neuroscience bdg computer science mas anthropology alt and nutrition alt micro- biome core facility maa-p and the frank porter graham child develop- ment institute bdg university of north carolina chapel hill north carolina department of mathematics and statistics ma university of nevada reno nevada and the department of psychology lab of neuro- psychology and lab of social cognitive affective neuroscience xg and state key lab of brain and cognitive sciences xg university of hong kong hong kong.address correspondence to rebecca c. knickmeyer ph.d. department of psychiatry 343 medical wings c campus box 7160 university of north carolina chapel hill nc 27599-7160 e-mail .received nov 21 2016 revised may 31 2017 accepted jun 12 2017.supplementary material cited in this article is available online at .references... ...c .fi.. .fi.... fi............... .. ......fl.

we hypothesized that infant see commentary on page 97148a 2017 society of biological psychiatry.biological psychiatry january 15 2018 83148-159 issn 0006-3223gut microbiome samples would cluster into groups of community similarity and that cognitive ability would differ between clusters.

bottom co-occurrence networks show positive and negative correlations between different genera.table 1. demographic characteristics of group and clustersaq  .05.genes involved in bacterial chemotaxis flagellar assembly bacterial motility proteins and cytoskeleton proteins were decreased.alpha diversity correlates with cognitive performancefour measures of alpha diversity chao1 ch1 observed species os shannon index si and faith's phylogenetic diversity fpd were tested for associations with the elc.

