E. faecalis responsible for the majority of these cases is a minor commensal bacteria found in the intestinal microbiota The source of bacteremia by E. faecalis in cases with cardiac infection as well as alterations in other systems most often is undetermined.

M. Miller E. B. Frank and R. A. Fischer Enterococcal endocarditis in association with cancer of the colon report of a case and review of the literature The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association vol.

Enterococcus faecalis E. faecalis a constituent of the gut microbiota can be associated with both colonic lesions and endocarditis.

This is the case description of a 53-year-old man with history of prolapse of the anterior mitral valve leaflet who was diagnosed with endocarditis by E. faecalis and treated with ampicillin and gentamicin.

There are a few descriptions in scientific literature of an association between endocarditis by E. faecalis and colonic lesions.

A few descriptions in literature associate the presence of these bacteria with preexisting colonic lesions It is recognized and well established that there is a strong correlation between these two pathologies when the isolated bacteria are Streptococcus gallolyticus S. gallolyticus formerly known as Streptococcus bovis S. bovis .In this context the objective of this case study is to present clinical diagnostic and therapeutic data of a patient that developed endocarditis by E. faecalis with coinciding colonic lesions.Case PresentationA 53-year-old male with history of prolapse and discrete myxomatous degeneration of the anterior mitral valve leaflet mild-to-moderate aortic insufficiency and midsystolic mitral regurgitation presented fever nocturnal hyperhidrosis myal- gia and anorexia during a period of approximately 15 days without significant weight loss.markers ESR 98 mm and CRP 97 mmL.

Furthermore culture and antibiogram from all 3 previously collected blood samples revealed the presence of E. faecalis sensitive to ampicillin.The patient was diagnosed with endocarditis and was subsequently hospitalized and prescribed ampicillin for a 28-day therapeutic cycle due to a shortage of crystalline penicillin.

A frequent point of entrance through which the E. faecalis invades the bloodstream is the genitourinary tract particularly in cases related to endocarditis.

Contaminations through the gastrointestinal and biliary tracts as well as catheters are also cited in various studies Possible associations between endocarditis by E. faecalisand colonic lesions have been demonstrated - althoughthe data described in studies is insufficient to determine the magnitude and the meaning of this combination.

These same characteristics which make this microorganism highly pro- ficient in causing bacteremia also have the potential to cause endocarditis and intestinal lesions Regarding E. faecalis it is believed that this agent is also involved in the mutation of colonic cells Some studies defend that the lesioned mucosa be it due to ischemia or inflammation is propitious to translocation of agents such asE.

