further infection models are required to elucidate the contribution of viral glycosylation to infection dynamics.using glycosyltransferase characteristics to inform policy and practicethe majority of studies discussed have been observational with stratification by glycosylation status revealing differences in infection or disease susceptibility.

opinioninfection's sweet tooth how glycans mediate infection and disease susceptibilitysteven l. taylor steve wesselinghglycans form a highly variable constituent of our mucosal surfaces and pro- foundly affect our susceptibility to infection and disease.

infection and pathogenesis are complex processes with mucosal glycans likely influencing susceptibility through both direct and indirect mechanisms.sticking around fut2 and pathogen adherencea12-fucosylated glycans influence infection susceptibility directly through facilitating patho- gen adherence.

this has been attributed to c. jejuni binding to a12-fucosylated milk glycans  which act as a receptor decoy in the infant sequestering the pathogen away from the epithelium b. as these examples demon- strate the dynamics of how glycan-mediated adherence either membrane-bound or luminal ultimately confers susceptibility or resistance to infection is complex.commensal influence fut2 and the microbiotain addition to influencing pathogen adherence fut2 has been shown to also affect infection susceptibility indirectly.

these growing data repositories provide an opportunity to explore effects of glycosylation variability on risks of infection and disease susceptibility at a population-level as well as at an individual level.glycosylation status might for example be informative at a population level during infection outbreaks where identifying at-risk individuals is vital for effective control management and global security.

at an individual level identifica- tion of common genetic infection and disease risk factors such as fut2 snps could inform and direct an individual's behaviour to minimise infection and disease risk particularly when linked to other risk factors.

we highlight with specific examples important mechanisms by which host glycans influence infection dynamics including by acting as path- ogen receptors or receptor-decoys promoting microbial stability altering the physical characteristics of mucus and acting as immunological markers.

we argue that the effect glycans have on infection dynamics has profound impli- cations for many aspects of healthcare and policy including clinical manage- ment outbreak control and vaccination policy.mucus glycans more than just decorationmucosal infections account for over one-tenth of deaths globally and are a major source of morbidity .

with these sites exposed to external sources encounters with micro- bial pathogens are unavoidable however the likelihood that an interaction will result in an infection varies substantially between individuals .

the ability to predict the outcome of exposure remains a central challenge in modern medicine.ithe extent to which mucosal surfaces influence the risk of infection is complex and remains poorly understood.

indeed the contribution of mucosal glycans to infection susceptibility has gained much recent interest owing to studies that have provided mechanistic insight into their function .mucosal constituents that are decorated with glycans are formed through a process mediated by a diverse family of glycosyltransferase enzymes mostly acting in a template-independent manner .

in addition to an absence of a12-fucosylated glycans in mucosal secretions including the absence of histo-blood group antigens nonsecretors also display increased levels of sialylated glycans in mucosal secretions  presumably as a result of reduced glycosyltransferase competition.a clue as to why these loss-of-function mutations are carried at such a high frequency and an illustration more generally of the importance of surface glycans to infection susceptibility is the major differences in rates of bacterial- and viral-mediated diseases between secretors and nonsecretors  key table.

a large number of studies have now reported significantly higher rates of viral infection in secretors including life-threatening infections caused by hiv influenza and norovirus .

it is important to note that while all of the studies listed in reported significant associations between secretor status and disease sample sizes and effect sizes vary.key tabletable 1. secretor status profoundly influences infection and disease susceptibilityaasecretor phenotype is associated with increased susceptibility to viral infections and respiratory disease severity but withdecreased susceptibility to bacterial infections and a diverse range of chronic inflammatory diseases.bdemonstrated in fut2-- mice with no human epidemiological evidence.cabbreviation cf cystic fibrosis.despite the well-described associations between fut2 and other mucosal glycosyltransfer- ases and a diversity of infections and diseases our understanding of the mechanisms behind these relationships remains poor.

baba has a specificity for the 'lewis b' a12-fucosylated mucosal glycan therefore baba-expressing h. pylori is more readily able to adhere to the gastric mucosa and colonize the stomachs of secretor individuals a. baba-encoding h. pylori and subsequent infection susceptibility is something of an exception as this is the only bacterial species listed in where susceptibility is increased in secretors due to the specificity of baba towards a12- fucosylated glycans.

