through comparing wolbachia-infected versus uninfected populations we aim to examine previously overlooked effects of wolbachia-infection on mosquito populations.resultsdynamics of wolbachia-infected and uninfected populationswe analyzed the time series data of four mosquito cage popu- lations as presented in .

a nonlin- ear wolbachia-infected population in a natural setting may there- fore be more difficult to control than an uninfected population even though the average population size is lower.

journal of theoretical biology 428 2017 98-105p  0.05 indicating that the population dynamics are best ex- plained by a linear stochastic process.in summary the results from the time series analysis show that the wolbachia-infected populations have higher population variability and system nonlinearity as well as lower predictabil- ity when compared to the uninfected populations.

aegypti population .while there is a great interest in using wolbachia to con- trol mosquito populations the effect of wolbachia infections on mosquito population dynamics is not well understood.

while previous analysis on those cage data has indicated that wolbachia infection with walbawalbb can decrease the average abundance of the mosquito population other aspects of system dynamics have not yet been examined.here we evaluate the population variability predictability and instability of caged aedes albopictus mosquito populations driven by dynamic nonlinearity see methods.

when the system is at equilibrium with measurement error the time series may ap- pear fluctuating around the equilibrium however there will be no measureable nonlinearity l'r  0 if the time series data are eval- uated with the aforementioned s-map procedure because there is no state dependence in the time series.significance of nonlinearity was tested by using 1000 surrogate time series .

the dewdrop method was separately conducted for the wolbachia- infected and uninfected cage populations.model simulationsto investigate the potential mechanisms underlying the ob- served difference in population dynamics variability predictabil- ity and nonlinearity of infected and uninfected populations we developed a population dynamic model.

infections of wolbachia may destabilize mosquito population dynamicsarndt telschow florian grziwotz philip crain takeshi miki james w. mainsgeorge sugihara stephen l. dobson chih-hao hsieh a institute for evolution and biodiversity westfalian wilhelms-university munster 48149 germanyb dupont pioneer johnston ia 50131 usac institute of oceanography national taiwan university taipei 10617 taiwand department of entomology university of kentucky lexington 40546 usae mosquitomate inc. lexington 40546 usaf scripps institution of oceanography university of california-san diego la jolla 92093 usag institute of ecology and evolutionary biology national taiwan university taipei 10617 taiwana r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c tarticle historyreceived 14 august 2016revised 3 may 2017accepted 9 may 2017available online 1 june 2017keywordsaedes albopictus time series analysis s-mappopulation stabilityrecent efforts in controlling mosquito-borne diseases focus on biocontrol strategies that incapacitate pathogens inside mosquitoes by altering the mosquito's microbiome.

s2a-c. in summary our model analysis suggests that larval competition but not fecundity hatch rate or adult mortality may be crucial for understanding the differences between the popula- tion dynamics of the wolbachia-infected and the uninfected cage populations.discussionusing nonlinear time series analysis we demonstrated that wolbachia-infected and uninfected cage populations of the asian tiger mosquito ae.

motivated by these ob- servations we developed a mathematical model to test whether one of these demographic factors could explain the difference in population dynamics of infected and uninfected populations.we discretized a standard model for insect population dynam- ics nicholson's blowflies equation  to better describe the experimental system created in .

rather our results provide a proof of principle and demonstrate the need to better elucidate the generality of a wolbachia effect on host population stability and its possible impact in pest control.mosquito population dynamics in the wild will differ sub- stantially from the laboratory setting because the environment is heterogeneous and many factors such as temperature and nutri- ent availability affect larval development larval competition and impact of wolbachia on local mosquito dynamics.

each mosquito time series consists of 44 weekly data points of the adult population size.

we then pooled replicates with the same infection status and used the same test to exam- ine whether the cv of wolbachia infected replicates is significantlyhigher than the cv of uninfected replicates see table s1 for pair- wise comparison of cvs.s-map procedurewe measured system nonlinearity associated with increased population variability of the time series as a proxy for system in- linear processes we compared the out-of-sample forecast skill of a linear model versus an equivalent nonlinear model.

here we show that natural wolbachia infections are associated with unstable mosquito population dynamics by contrasting wolbachia-infected versus unin- fected cage populations of the asian tiger mosquito aedes albopictus.

we found that the cv is nearly1.5 times higher for the wolbachia-infected populations 0.283 than for the uninfected 0.197 and that the difference is signifi- cant p  0.01. this shows that the wolbachia-infected cage popu- lations exhibit a significantly higher variability in population abun- dance than the uninfected populations.secondly we evaluated predictability and system nonlinearity i.e.

