and Additional file DiscussionThe oral microbiome has been shown to be the primary source of the healthy lung microbiome  and in- deed culture-independent studies have confirmed that the microbiome of the lungs more closely resembles that of the oropharynx than it does for instance that of other possible source communities such as inhaled air and the nasopharynx - This makes the oropharynx a valuable proxy for the lung microbiome which requires less invasive techniques for sampling.In this study we assessed the microbiome composition of the oropharynx of 13 asthmatic patients and found the most abundant phyla to be the Firmicutes Bacteroi- detes Fusobacteria Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria in descending order and the most abundant genera to be Prevotella P. melaninogenica 15.17 of all reads P. pallens 1.99 and P. nigrescens 1.42 and Streptococ- cus mitis group S. mitispneumoniae 10.68 S. para- sanguinis 6.84 S. infantis 0.95 S. australis 0.57.P.

of subjects 3 606 75Severe asthma exacerbations requiring treatment with systemic corticosteroidsFEV1FVC ratio prebronchodilatorMean SD60.4 12.166.9 9.4FENO ppbMedian Range IQR12.8 826.7 1020.930 1354 20.337.5Eosinophil count in blood x10-9literLegend Atopic status based on skin prick tests if skin prick test was not interpretable or not available the atopic status is based on serum RAST for standard aero-allergens house dust mite animal dander cat dog pollen grass tree and Aspergillus fumigatusAbbreviations ACQ asthma control questionnaire AQLQ asthma quality of life questionnaire BDP beclomethasone dipropionate IQR interquartile range LRT lower respiratory tractThe oropharyngeal microbiome was assessed at four different visits during the trial i.e.

more specifically L. gasseri were relatively more abundant in the oropharyngeal microbiome of schizophrenia patients but overall they reported the presence of the same key members as established in other studies.Interestingly Chlamydophila pneumoniae and Myco- plasma pneumoniae were not recovered in this study or the studies mentioned above although both species have been detected from patients with acute asthma exacerbations -The effect of macrolides on the oro pharyngeal microbiome has been studied previously.Malhotra-Kumar et al.

However our results of the non-treated sam- ples concurred with those of earlier studies of the oro- pharyngeal microbiome -.ConclusionThis study confirmed the overall composition of the oro- pharyngeal microbiome in patients with severe asthma and confirmed that this overall composition does not differ substantially from that of the healthy population.

The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver applies to the data made available in this article unless otherwise stated.BackgroundAsthma is a chronic disease of the airways character- ized by chronic airway inflammation and variable symptoms of wheezing dyspnea and cough  The genetic and environmental factors that determine asthma are not well understood but several studies suggest that microbes from oral sites not only con- tribute to colonization of the airways in disease as in cystic fibrosis - but also that microbial colonization of the airways might have a role in the chronic inflammatory process .

Although the induction of antimicrobial resistance has been investigated in healthy individuals after short-term administration of macrolides the effects of chronic treatment with macro- lides on the composition of the pharyngeal microbiome in patients with severe asthma remain to be elucidated.

Moreover the oropharynx can be regarded as the best proxy for the lung microbiome -.Briefly oropharyngeal samples were obtained by means of a swab firmly pressed over the tonsils and the posterior pharyngeal wall The jaws teeth and gin- giva were avoided when the swab was withdrawn.DNA extraction and sequencingFor DNA extraction the oropharyngeal swab was immersed in physiological water and a volume of 200 ml of the suspension was transferred to a 2 ml tube to which 200 ml of buffer 20 mM Tris-HCl pH 8.0 0.5 Sodium dodecyl sulfate was added.

The lung microbiome New principles for respiratory bacteriology in health and disease.

For instance both Chlamydophila pneumoniae and Mycoplasma pneumo- niae have been detected in respiratory secretions from pa- tients with acute asthma exacerbations -.Recently the macrolides erythromycin and azithromy- cin have been assessed as an addition to standard ther- apy to prevent exacerbations in patients with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD - Macrolides exert their antimicrobial effects by binding to the 50S ribosomal RNA subunit and have a broad spectrum of activity against many micro-organisms In addition macrolides have multiple immunomodula- tory and anti-inflammatory effects  However use of antibiotics has been associated with the develop- ment of antimicrobial resistance of bacteria in individual patients and at population level.

at the end of the wash- out period.Sample collectionAlthough sputum spontaneous or induced bronchial brushings or bronchoalveolar lavage samples could pos- sibly demonstrate more pronounced effects of azithro- mycin treatment these samples are more difficult to obtain and invasive techniques such as bronchoscopy for bronchial brushings or lavage could induce asthma attacks in patients with severe asthma.

