Journal of Digestive Diseases 2018 19 2-7doi 10.11111751-2980.12570Review articleSpecific changes of enteric mycobiota and virome in inflammatory bowel diseaseYi CHU Ming Zuo JIANG Bing XU Wei Jie WANG Di CHEN Xiao Wei LI Yu Jie ZHANG  Jie LIANGState Key Laboratory of Cancer Biology  Institute of Digestive Diseases Xijing Hospital Fourth Military Medical University Xi'an Shaanxi Province ChinaOne of the important features of inflammatory bowel disease IBD is dysbiosis of the gut microbiota.

This review focused on how the enteric mycobiota and virome changes during the pathogenesis of IBD and discussed potential treatment strategies that open new insights into the managements of IBD.KEY WORDS dysbiosis inflammatory bowel diseases mycobiota virome.INTRODUCTIONInflammatory bowel disease IBD mainly consisting of ulcerative colitis UC and Crohn's disease CD is a complex group of recurrent inflammatory disor- ders affecting the gastrointestinal GI tract.

cerevisiae and an increased proportion of C. albi- cans.The colonization of C. albicans could aggravate intestinal inflammation in a murine colitis model while antifungal treatment could dramatically reverse the inflammatory responses suggesting that fungi account for the exacerbation of the inflammatory response in colitis.However the exact mechanisms of mycobiota in IBD remain unclear.

Disease-specific alterations in the enteric virome in inflammatory bowel disease.

Increasing incidence and prevalence of the inflammatory bowel diseases with time based on systematic review.

Clin Med Insights Gastroenterol 2013 6 33-47.Ye Y Pang Z Chen W Ju S Zhou C. The epidemiology and risk factors of inflammatory bowel disease.

Dysfunction of the intestinal microbiome in inflammatory bowel disease and treatment.

Genome Biol 2012 13 R79.Kostic AD Xavier RJ Gevers D. The microbiome in inflammatory bowel disease current status and the future ahead.

Second European evidence- based consensus on the prevention diagnosis and management of opportunistic infections in inflammatory bowel disease.

J Crohns Colitis 2014 8 443-68.Lucas Lopez R Grande Burgos MJ Galvez A Perez Pulido R. The human gastrointestinal tract and oral microbiota in inflammatory bowel disease a state of the science review.

