the relative abundance of fusobacterium in the colonic mucosa of mouse colitis models or ibd patients is increased among which 69 of all ibd patients-derived fusobacterium were identified as fusobacterium nucleatum -116. moreover commensal bacteria includ- ing fusobacterium varium that was one of mucosal organisms isolated from uc patients were found as a possible pathogen in uc 112 .apart from those above microbiota there are some other spe- cies relate to the pathogenesis and progression of uc including roseburia hominis eubacterium rectale listeria monocytogenes and candida albicans     117-120. for instance in uc patients r. hominis a well-known kind of firmicutesphylum bacteria that produces butyrate differs from that of healthy individuals in number  .

albicans is most often isolated in 91.7 patients in uc and can delay healing of uc 119 120.part ii potential targets for uc therapyin the above contents the roles and changes of several kinds of microbiota in uc have been fully discussed in above contents.

unlike the well-researched cd our knowledge on uc is relatively deficit and there remain many contradictions to be elucidated.in this review the relationship between uc and several popular microbiota communities highly related as well as the potential therapeutic targets for uc involved in the regulation of microbiota will be discussed.part i microbiotathe colon has two mucus layers which is different from the small intestine with a single layer of mucus.

for instance more abundant of e. coli were found in active uc patients than in inactive uc patients or healthy people 87 88 93.escherichia coli from ileal cd patients particularly adherent- invasive escherichia coli aiec strains have been reported to be enriched in uc patients 94 .

in addition potential therapeutic targets for uc involved in the regulation of micro- biota including nlrps vitamin d receptor as well as secreted proteins are discussed in this review.keywords intestinal microbiota host immune response ulcerative colitis epithelial cells therapeutic targetsintroductionulcerative colitis uc is a sort of chronic recurrent disorder with the characteristics of intestinal mucosa inflammation and ulceration -.

furthermore it was reported that those two microbiota were reduced in the occurrence of uc suggesting a potential therapeutic target in the treatment of uc  .

the temperature and nutrients in these environments can support the viability of saprophytic e. coli  .it has been reported that the number of e. coli is elevated in uc whether in mouse models or uc patients 21 -.

considering the increased number of e. coli has connection with the activity status of uc patients the difference in the severity of uc may account for the reason.

although h. pylori is widespread in the epithelium ofthe stomach studies have shown that it can also be detected in the colon and fecal in uc patients 105-108. the relationship between uc and h. pylori is contradictory and complex.

in recent years studies have found that it may exacerbate the sever- ity of uc 117. however in uc endoscopic biopsy samples it was shown that the number of l. monocytogenes did not differ from the normal group.

therefore further efforts are demanded in the determination of the effects and mechanisms of the nlrp3 inflammasome in uc so that we are able to take advantage of the nlrp3 inflammasome in the treatment of uc in the future.the expression of the nlrp6 inflammasome can be detected in both the large intestine and the small intestine.

81674. doi ulcerative colitis uc is an inflammatory bowel disease ibd with chronic and recurrent characteristics caused by multiple reasons.

although the pathogenic factors have not been clarified yet recent studies have demonstrated that intestinal microbiota plays a major role in uc especially in the immune system.

this review focuses on the descrip- tion of several major microbiota communities that affect uc and their interactions with the host.

uc is also regarded as a polygenic and multiple diseases caused by a series of complex factors such as environment genes and immunomodulatory factors .the microenvironment of the gut forms a good microbiota habitat which has been demonstrated to affect many physiological conditions in earlier studies -.

