dysregulation of foxp3 treg cells hyperactivation of effector t cells in- creased circulating memory t cells and lymphocytic infil- tration of target organs were evidenced.

ctla-4 haploinsufficiency also causes progressive loss of circulat- ing b cells associated with an increase of predominantly autoreactive cd21lo b cells and accumulation of b cells in non-lymphoid organs.

it also needs binding of cd80 and cd86 ligands on the antigen-presenting cells with cd28 co-stimulatory receptor on the t cells  .

anti-ctla- 4 mabs reactivate t cells that are primed in lymphoid organs regardless of the antigen specificity and therefore affect amuch wider repertoire of t cells than those involved in the anti-cancer response  .

it is therefore not surprising that ipilimumab induces immune-related adverse events enteroco- litis is one of the most frequent of them.the role of ctla-4 in intestinal homeostasisctla-4 is upregulated on naive t cells upon activation but it is also expressed in a high proportion of treg cells which play an important role in intestinal homeostasis.

j exp med 19571-84cong y brandwein sl mccabe rp lazenby a birkenmeier eh et al 1998 cd4 t cells reactive to enteric bacterial antigens in spontaneously colitic c3hhejbir mice increased t helper cell type 1 response and ability to transfer disease.

anti-ctla-4 mabs might also induce the depletion of treg cells which express ctla-4.

these cells are susceptible to antibody-dependent cell-medi- ated cytotoxicity after binding of anti-ctla-4 antibody to the cd16-expressing monocytes and macrophages -.

in an experimental colitis model based upon t cell transfers antibodies to ctla-4 induced colitis by targeting treg cells and disrupting their activ- ity thereby abolishing their immunomodulatory role .

this effect was due to the blockade of the interaction between ctla-4 and its ligand not by depletion of ctla-4 treg cells .

the same group showed that the role of ctla-4 is critical for the accumulation of foxp3 treg cells in the lamina propria of the intestines but not in the spleen and the lymph nodes .

these cells are generated locally from cd4 foxp3-precursors that express tcrs spe- cific for microbiota-derived antigens .recently three independent groups have reported pa- tients with germline heterozygous mutations of ctla-4 called ctla-4 haploinsufficiency with autoimmunity -.

about half of the patients have chronic mild patchy inflammation of the stomach and the duodenum crypt distortion focal and heterogeneous villus shortening in- creased eosinophils and mononuclear inflammatory cells in the lamina propria.

t cells dis- tinguish between self and non-self during thymic develop- ment but are also educated in the gut to tolerate the non-self antigens derived from the commensal microbiota.

in many animal models of ibd germ-free mice do not develop colitis  and t cells specific for commensal bacteria induce intestinal inflamma- tion  .

