Across the 6- and 10-week doses we assessed the association between the number ofdoses in which 1 enteropathogen was present 0 1 or 2 and rotavirus seroconversion via logistic regression.Type 3 poliovirus seroconversion rate was compared according to rotavirus seroconversion status using the kh2 test as was the prevalence of dose 1 rotavirus shedding.

Nonetheless after two doses rotavirus seroconversion did not differ by type 3 poliovirus seroconversion status 146447 33 seroconverted among poliovirus sero-responders and26103 25 among non-responders kh2 P  .143.

Here IgA seropositivity at baseline was negatively correlated with dose 1 shedding but not with seroconversion after two doses.We observed no differences in the composition or stability of the bacterial microbiota according to rotavirus seroconversion status.

In a systematic review of oral poliovirus vaccine OPV trials we observed a reduction in the odds of seroconversion and vaccine virus shedding among individuals infected with non-polio enteroviruses NPEVs 8.

Rotavirus seroconversion was defined as a four-fold increase in anti- VP6 IgA concentration or detection of antibodies at 20 Uml in previously seronegative infants.Hereafter we refer to infants who seroconverted to rotavirus as responders and infants who failed to seroconvert as non-responders.Following completion of the trial we conducted a nested case-control study to assess the association between enteropathogens and RV1 response.

Our primary outcome was the association between rotavirus seroconversion and the presence of 1 enteropathogen at 6 or 10 weeks of age as determined via logistic regression.

Rotaviruses were excluded from analyses of mixed infections pathogen groups and pathogen count given that in contrast to the hypothesized inhibitory effect of enteropathogens one would expect natural rotavirus exposure or RV1 shedding to be positively correlated with rotavirus seroconversion.

Random Forest models were fit to discriminate infants according to RV1 outcome and study arm based on OTU abundances 34.Sensitivity analyses We carried out sensitivity analyses to assess the influence of Ct threshold study arm amplification efficiency of MS2 the extrinsic RNA control in the TACs baseline rotavirus- specific IgA status and seroconversion criteria on the comparisons described above.3.

Infants receiving probiotics arms 1  2 or zinc supplementation arms 1  3 did not differ significantly in their rate of seroconversion compared with placebo recipients arms 3  4 or 2  4 respectively.

However a significant increase in seroconversion rate was observed among infants who received both supplements compared with those who received neither Fisher's exact test P  .040.Association between pathogen burden and seroconversionPrimary outcome We assessed the presence of enteropathogens using TACs in 325 infants .

