Importantly to confirm the role of the gut microbiota in bone health another experiment also showed that germ-free mice are protected against the bone loss induced by the absence of sex steroids  .We must mention that the gut microbiota may influence the risk for breast cancer through effects on endogenous estrogens produced by adipose tissue in postmenopausal women   .

Understanding the role of the microbiota in women's health at the menopausal phase could help to improve strategies for microbiota modulation and prevent dysfunction.

81884. doi Sex differences in gut microbiota are acknowledged and evidence suggests that gut microbiota may have a role in higher incidence andor severity of autoimmune diseases in females.

Considering that hormone replacement therapy is not always recommended or sufficient to prevent or treat menopause-related disease we will also discuss the use of probiotics and prebiotics as an option for the prevention or treatment of these diseases.Keywords saliva oral health mouth diseases gut microbiota estrogen menopauseINTRODUCTIONWe harbor trillions of microorganisms that associate with specific tissues and are termed microbiota.

These different findings on gut microbiota diversity and breast cancer could be explained by the fact that disease outcome or disease stage can also affect the microbiota.

Therefore given that many menopausal women also suffer from oral discomforts in addition to climacteric symptoms    an understanding of the impact of female sexhormones on the characteristics of the oral microbiota may be clinically relevant especially during menopause.

Some of the main complaints from women in menopause include dry mouth and tooth loss and the existing data have focused on the salivary microbial composition and the microbiota characteristics of the gingival sulcus.

The accumulation of abdominal fat in postmenopausal women appears to be a critical factor in the development of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes   and the relationship between the gut microbiota and a lack of estrogen is likely responsible for weight gain and lipid deposition during menopause .

The intake of flaxseed mucilage a prebiotic is known to improve insulin sensitivity and alter the gut microbiota in obese postmenopausal women  .

Thus far the implications of the gut microbiota with lowlevels or the absence of estrogen hormone in the metabolism of women have not been sufficiently studied and require further clarification.Another link between the gut microbiome and menopausal health is related to bone.

