s. roier is gratefully acknowledged for providing the graphics and helpful discussion.references and recommended readingpapers of particular interest published within the period of review have been highlighted asof special interest.. of outstanding interestin this excellent review hajishengallis and lamont develop the concept that commensal and pathogenic properties of organisms are not intrinsic features but need to be perceived in the context of a given microbial community and the host immune status.these authors analyze the impact of short-term variation in macronu- trients on the human gut microbiome underscoring the view that diet is one of the most potent driving forces shaping gut microbial communities.

the potential for a dysbiotic microbiota to induce an immune response that is uncontrolled and destructive is a key component in inflammatory mucosal diseases.crohn's disease cd and ulcerative colitis uc are two intestinal inflammatory conditions collectively called inflammatory bowel disease ibd that are caused by multiple factors involving host genetics the environment and microbes.

the shift in po2 selects for an altered microbiota and may lead to higher diffusible oxygen in the lumen conditions that support post-antibiotic expansion of pathogens such as s. typhimurium  altered gut microbiota.in summary these data underscore the importance of the microbial component gut oxygenation and the inflamma- tory reaction itself as perpetrators of dysbiosis in ibd patients .

pathobionts are members of the symbiotic community that expand as a result of the imbalance and exert pathogenic effects on the host.here i discuss how microbial dysbiosis contributes to the development and pathology of inflammatory diseases of the intestine use recent advances with selected experi- mental models to illustrate microbial-driven pathologies and focus on the particular role of pathobionts in this dysregulated state.individualists vs. community level pathogenic potentialantibiotics alter microbiota composition and functions producing both acute and long-lasting deleterious effects for the host .

although these organ- isms appear to exert their pathogenic properties individ- ually a complex interplay between pathobiont microbial community and host response actually determines dis- ease outcome .other inflammatory diseases are instigated not by single organisms but by the collective activities of a multispecies community.

the challenge remains to delineate therespective roles of community members to understand causalities between gut microbes and immunity.host genetic deficiencies and colonic microbial ecologylarge-scale genome-wide association studies reveal ibd as complex multigenic disorders .

the altered gut microbiota generated by inflammasome deficiency trig- gered an enhanced inflammatory response in the intestine and predisposed the host to ibd.

chronic inflammation impacts gut microbial composition and metabolic activities.

the resulting states of dysbiosis take many forms characterized by overrepresentation of pro-inflammatory organisms and pathobionts and loss of beneficial commensals further aggravating the inflammatory state.

the pathogenic potential of the dysbiotic community can be linked to specific organisms in some cases but accumulating evidence suggests that intestinal inflammatory diseases are driven by collective functions of highly variable polymicrobial communities.

coping with the trillions of microbes present in the gut lumen and continuous threats from newly ingested infectious and non-infectious organisms is a tremendous challenge for the mucosal immune system.

the altered host-microbe relationship can be defined as dysbiosis when the microbial shift has pathophysiological consequences.

depletion of microbial density diminishes signaling to the intestinal mucosa impairs colonization resistance and allows expansion by the antibiotic resistant population.

the organisms causing antibiotic associated diarrhea remain unidentified in many casesyet antibiotic associated colitis is a disease model that has enabled single organisms and their specific pathophysio- logical effects to be causally linked to the development of inflammatory disorders.

resident members such as clos- tridium difficile or klebsiella oxytoca flourish under these conditions and their ability to produce protein or small molecule enterotoxins once high microbial densities are reached  is responsible for some but not all forms of antibiotic associated colitis .

