this review will discuss the key clinical features of ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease the occur- rence of pidd in early-onset ibd and the potential ap- proaches for the diagnosis and management of such patients.the changing epidemiologyseveral large european cohorts have demonstrated a dramatic increase in incidence in ibd but the findings are particularly notable for pediatric-onset crohn's disease.

in canada one of the areas with the highest inci- dence of pediatric ibd the most pronounced increase was seen in the very young children diagnosed less than five years of age known as very early-onset ibd veo-ibd .

extra-intestinal manifestations were present in 20 of the children with ibd in a large european cohort .indeterminate colitis refers to ibd in which the patient cannot be clearly assigned to either crohn's disease or ulcer- ative colitis.

in the table disorders in which ibd is likely to be a presenting manifestation are distinguished from those where ibd is more likely to arise later in the course.

nevertheless these primary immune deficiencies probably have complex contri- butions to the susceptibility of ibd and therefore this reflects as incomplete penetrance of the ibd .

.therapy of ibd in patients with primary immune deficiencyin general therapy for ibd in patients with pidd is not well established.

this paper emphasizes that the ibd seen in children is not simply an early version of adult ibd but has a distinctive natural history20.

early-onset ibd .

monogenic ibdintroductioninflammatory bowel disease ibd includes ulcerative colitis crohn's disease and indeterminate colitis.

there has been a dramatic increase in the incidence of ibd over the past 50 years accompanied by a gradually decreasing median age of onset.

at one time the suspicion of primary immune defi- ciency disorder pidd as a cause for ibd was low and re- stricted to patients with pediatric-onset and severe disease.

with the changing epidemiology of ibd it has become more difficult to define the population that would benefit from an evaluation for pidd.

there is a recognized north-south gradient with a higher incidence of ibd in the northern latitudes .

this north-south gradi- ent is being altered because developing countries have among the greatest increase in the rates of pediatric-onset ibd .

other recognized epidemiologic features of ibd are familialoccurrences.

