t cell-dependent vaccination with a weak central nervous system cns-specific myelin-derived peptide agonist before initial exposure to chronic mild stress pre- vented the establishment of depression-like behaviors in rats 20. similarly t cell-deficient mice showed enhanced vulnerability to stress whereas mice overexpressing autoreactive t cells were resistant to depression-like behavior when confronted with a predator odor challenge 21. inocu- lation with t cells promoted resilience in t cell-deficient mice suggesting that mild activation of the adaptive immune system may confer a relative protection against stress-related mood disorders21 figure 1. in line with this idea transplantation of lymph node cell suspensions from stressed mice into naive mice lacking mature lymphocytes not only produced antidepressant effects but also reduced circulating inflammatory cytokine levels 22. altogether these studies suggest that it may be possible to counteract stress-induced immune responses by manipulating adaptive t cells 23. interestingly treatment with the antidepressant fluoxetine can rescue stress-induced reduc- tions in t cell reactivity and proliferation 24 and the anti-inflammatory effects of imipramine are associated with activation of t lymphocytes in mice 25. increased numbers of t cells have also been reported in the blood of patients following successful antidepressant treatment with imipramine 26. nevertheless as the effects of antidepressants on the adaptive immune system are still poorly understood for a review please refer to 27 far more basic research is needed to determine the safety and efficacy of vaccine-based therapies for the treatment of mood disorders figure 1.another promising avenue of research involves manipulation of stress-induced innate im-mune priming to prevent enhanced proliferation and release of inflammatory monocytes and neutrophils as well as their recruitment to the brain 28. in an elegant study powell et al.

adult women but not men exposed to acute cold pain stress which activates the hpa axis exhibited increased small intestinal permeability during and immediately after the stressor 95 figure 1.the gastrointestinal tract git and the brain communicate in a bidirectional manner throughthe brain-gut-enteric axis an intricate network made up of the cns gut microbiota neuroen- docrine system peripheral and central immune systems sympathetic and parasympathetic di- visions of the autonomic nervous system and enteric nervous system 96. stress can initiate cns signaling in reward and mood-related nuclei that communicate with the git through neu- roendocrine hpa axis and autonomic processes leading to modulation of intestinal motilityand permeability 97. gut microbiota in turn can use several mechanisms to influence cns processes and subsequent behavioral response to stress including local production of neurotrans- mitters such as serotonin and oxytocin and activation of neural vagus nerve stimulation and hu- moral cytokine-mediated immune signaling pathways 88 96 figure 1. the gut microbiome is tightly linked to inflammatory processes and gut microbiota mediate both the development and function of central and peripheral immune cells.

we present both preclinical and clinical ev- idence wherever possible and focus our discussion on peripheral and central immune processes and the interaction of these processes with the gut microbiotic environment.peripheral immune targets for antidepressant drug developmentover the past three decades affective disorders research has increasingly focused on peripheral sys- tems particularly the peripheral immune system as potential mediators of mood disorder patho- physiology.

nevertheless future therapeutic strategies should use caution when adding on nsaids as nsaids can impact the absorption of ssris and as such the antidepressant effects of ssris are attenuated by anti-inflammatory drugs in mice and humans 41.central inflammatory targets for antidepressant drug developmentalterations in the number or reactivity of the main cns cell types responsive to peripheral in- flammatory signals--microglia astrocytes and endothelial cells--are characteristic of depression 3. positron emission tomography imaging studies in mdd patients experiencing a major de- pressive episode revealed enhanced microglial activation in depression-associated brain regions prefrontal cortex pfc anterior cingulate cortex acc and insula compared to healthy con- trols and microglial activation in acc positively correlated with depressive episode severity 42. furthermore immunohistochemical analyses of subgenual acc and anterior midcingulate cortex in depressed suicide completers revealed increased levels of microglial cells positive for quinolinic acid a metabolite thought to be released by microglia in response to cytokine signaling 43. ad- ditional postmortem studies indicated that mdd patients display reduced glial density in acc 44 orbitofrontal cortex 45 subgenual pfc 46 amygdala 47 and dorsolateral pfc 48. the most numerous glia in brain are astrocytes and astrocytic abnormalities have been well doc- umented in depressed patients 49. depressed suicide completers exhibit altered morphology of fibrous astrocytes in acc white matter including larger astrocytic cell bodies longer projections and more branching points 50. depression has further been associated with reduced expres- sion of astrocyte markers in brain including glial fibrillary acidic protein gfap connexin gap junction proteins aquaporin-4 a water channel on astrocytic endfeet s100b calcium-binding protein eaat1 and eaat2 glutamate transporters and glutamine synthetase 49. collectively astrocyte-associated changes in mdd suggest impairment of plasticity rather than cell loss which may enhance damage to the blood-brain barrier bbb and promote signaling of peripheral inflam- matory signals to the brain 3 49. this hypothesis is supported by findings of reduced coverage of blood vessels by astrocytic endfeet in postmortem orbitofrontal cortex of depressed patients 51. endothelial cell-mediated neurovascular dysfunction also contributes to bbb hyperperme- ability in numerous neurological disorders and as such endothelial cells are an increasing focus of depression research 52. patients with chronic vascular conditions including diabetes cardio- vascular disease and stroke have an increased risk of developing depression 53. mdd patientsdisplay reduced brachial artery relative uptake ratio an indicator of endothelial function 52 and blood serum derived from mdd patients has enhanced proapoptotic activity on cultured endothelial cells 54. these vascular impairments likely have consequences for bbb permeability to inflammatory factors.

indeed selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ssris and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors affect cytokine levels in men but not in women 12. collectively these findings high- light the need for further studies that elucidate the complex interactions of the peripheral immune system and brain reward circuitry to ultimately improve antidepressant treatment strategies 1314. in this section we provide an overview of stress effects on the peripheral immune system and discuss recent findings in both humans and animal models that are relevant to antidepressant drug development.the peripheral immune system is composed of several cell types traditionally assigned to ei- ther the innate or adaptive immune systems.

cultured peripheral blood cells derived from naive rats given two weeks of b. infantis supple- mentation released less il-6 ifn-g and tnf-a in response to incubation with lps tnf-a or concanavalin a il-6 and ifn-g a plant mitogen used to stimulate t lymphocytes sug- gesting an attenuation of peripheral inflammatory response to immune challenge 108. the anxiolytic and antidepressant effects of l. rhamnosus treatment are dependent on the vagus nerve an important mediator of neuroimmune communication between the gut and cns as vago- tomy prevented these effects 105. furthermore findings in the mouse experimental autoim- mune encephalitis model of multiple sclerosis suggest that lactobacillus probiotics mediate anti- inflammatory effects in part by stimulating release of the anti-inflammatory cytokine il-10 into the peripheral circulation leading to an induction of immunosuppressive regulatory t cells in the spleen and mesenteric lymph nodes 109. in the chronic social defeat stress mouse modell.

antibiotics pro- biotics 88. depressed patients exhibit dysbiosis or altered fecal counts of several types of gut bacteria including those belonging to the predominant phyla colonizing the adult human gut-- bacteroidetes and firmicutes 88-91. recent evidence suggests that this dysbiosis results in a reduction in both the diversity and richness of gut bacterial populations 91 92 figure 1. fur- ther supporting a role for gut processes in depression irritable bowel syndrome ibs is more prevalent in patients with depression than in otherwise healthy individuals 89. studies in healthy volunteers indicate that acute stress can promote a leaky gut although changes in intestinal per- meability have not been evaluated in mdd patients 93. subjects exposed to acute stress in the form of public speaking exhibited increased small intestinal permeability an effect recapitulated in unstressed subjects through exogenous corticotropin-releasing hormone administration 94. women may be especially vulnerable to stress effects on gut permeability.

gf mice are reared in sterile environments and therefore completely lack bacterial colonization 90 91. compared to conventionally raised specific pathogen-free spf mice gf mice at baseline show increased motor activity 99 and reduced anxiety and behavioral despair 91 99. bacterial colonization promotes a partial shift toward spf-like baseline anxiety behavior but only when performed in early life 99. gf mice also exhibit numerous neurochemical and synaptic abnormalities in- cluding increased turnover of dopamine serotonin and noradrenaline in striatum 99 increased concentration of serotonin in hippocampus 100 altered brain-derived neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor-1a mrna expression in various mood-related brain regions 99-101 and elevated striatal synaptophysin and postsynaptic density protein 95 expression 99. various studies indicate that gf mice are more susceptible to stress than spf mice.

bbb-modulating interventions are untested in human affective disorders but as the bbb is an emerging focus of neuropsychiatric research we anticipate further preclinical and clinical insights on this important interface of the peripheral immune system and cns.harnessing the antidepressant and immunomodulatory potential of gut microbiotarecent evidence suggests a role for another peripheral system--the gut microbiome--in im- munomodulation and depression.

the first observation of peripheral immune involvement published in the late 1980s reported psychiatric complications in a subset of patients suffering from chronic viral hepatitis who were treated with human interferon-a 6. in the decades since multiple clinical and preclin- ical studies have associated high levels of circulating leukocytes and proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1b il-1b interleukin-6 il-6 and tumor necrosis factor-a tnf-a with depressive symptoms in humans and depression-like behaviors in animal models informing the macrophage theory of depression for comprehensive reviews see 3 5 7-9. polymorphisms in immune-related genes including those encoding il-1b il-6 tnf-a c-reactive protein crp and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 also known as chemokine ligand 2 ccl2 have re- cently been linked to depression risk severity and treatment responsiveness 10. further sup- porting a role for peripheral immune processes in mood treatment of inflammatory diseases with drugs that lower cytokine levels improved depressive symptoms in patients with comorbid mood disorders 11. however the effect of commonly prescribed antidepressants on inflammatory cy- tokine levels is not yet well established in humans as studies have reported decreased levels no effect or even increased levels of various cytokines for a review see 5. these discrepancies may be related to the heterogeneity of mood disorders or gender differences in treatment response.

endothelial cellsmay also play an active role in recruiting peripheral cells to the bbb and transducing stress-induced inflammatory signals to microglia as endothelial cell-specific il-1r1 knockdown in mice pre- vented recruitment of peripheral myeloid cells to cns tissue and reduced mrna expression of il-1b tnf-a il-6 and ccl2 in brain cd11b cells 65.preclinical studies further highlight the potential therapeutic opportunity of targeting cen- tral inflammatory processes particularly those mediated by microglia.

importantly both of these studies demonstrated a recapitulation and maintenance of the donor microbiotic environment in host mice following fmt.numerous preclinical studies highlight probiotics as an area of untapped therapeutic opportu-nity 90. for instance chronic bifidobacterium infantis administration has been shown to reverse maternal separation-induced immobility in the forced swim test in rats 103 figure 1. further- more chronic treatment with bifidobacterium longum lactobacillus rhamnosus or bifidobacterium breve exerted anxiolytic effects as well as antidepressant effects for b. longum and l. rhamnosus in the balbc anxious mouse strain 104 105 figure 1. l. rhamnosus administration also atten- uated acute stress-induced corticosterone release in balbc mice 105. when given chronically to c57bl6 mice prior to and during chronic social defeat exposure l. rhamnosus partially pre- vented defeat-induced impairments in social interaction although only to a conspecific c57bl6 mouse not to a novel aggressor and anxiety-like behavior 106. chronic administration oflactobacillus helveticus and b. longum to rats undergoing experimental myocardial infarction mi which produces peripheral monocytosis and symptoms of depression in 65 of patients prevented mi-induced deficits in social interaction forced swim and passive avoidance step-down tests107 figure 1. the probiotic treatment also prevented the mi-induced increase in intestinal permeability.probiotics may exert their anxiolytic and antidepressant effects through immune mechanisms.

minocycline is a second- generation tetracycline antibiotic that inhibits microglia somewhat selectively although it also has reported effects on peripheral macrophages t cells and cultured neurons 66. systemic minocycline administration prevents microglial activation and il-1b induction in hippocampus and pfc figure 1 as well as depression-like behavior in the forced swim test in mice exposed to chronic restraint stress 61. another study found that minocycline treatment of mice during social defeat reduced microglial activation and il-1b mrna expression in hippocampus and prevented stress-induced spatial memory deficits in the barnes maze suggesting that minocycline may be of particular interest in mediating the cognitive and memory symptoms associated with affective disorders 67. the authors did not observe a prevention or reduction of depression-like social avoidance behavior however.

the ex- isting antidepressant imipramine has been shown to attenuate corticosterone and il-6 responses and decrease the number of circulating monocytes in mice 34. however imipramine does not affect the stress-related increased frequency of granulocytes in spleen and these cells may prime the organism for increased stress-induced inflammation 34.subsets of patients suffering from mood disorders have circulating immune cells characterizedby proinflammatory transcriptional profiles 29 and potential priming to stress-induced signals.

innate immune cells which include monocytes granulocytes macrophages dendritic cells and innate lymphocytes are involved in rapid and effective responses against pathogens or sterile injury 3 5. tissue-resident dendritic cells and macrophages act through pattern recognition receptors prrs--pathogen-associated molecu- lar patterns pamps or danger-associated molecular patterns damps--activating signaling cascades that lead to release of inflammatory cytokines and recruitment of monocytes and neu- trophils 3 5. recruited monocytes play a key role in inflammation and can further differentiate into phagocytic macrophages or dendritic cells whereas tissue-resident macrophages are involved in the resolution of inflammation and tissue homeostasis 15 16. granulopoiesis and monocyto- sis characterized by a rapid increase in the number of neutrophils and monocytes respectively are generally associated with trauma-related injury or antimicrobial defense.

