green robusta coffee beans coffea canephora l. harvested in brazil in 2014 and dehulled by the dry meth- od were purchased from bero polska gdynia poland.obtaining and purification of green coffee extract gce an aqueous extract from grounded green coffee beans was obtained by incubation at 110 degc for 10 min .

the significance of differences between the groups of rats was determined at a confidence level of p  0.05 .results and discussionbody weight diet intake body composition and indices of the cecum and colon in rats the diets tested influenced the intake of feed and body weight gain in experimental rats table .

the significant decrease in the body fat mass and increase in lean mass was observed in the bbcd-cgas diet group compared to the other groups p  0.05. the group fed the bbcd-cgas diet was characterized by a greater mass of cecum wall and the substantially greater filling with contents compared to the other groups of rats p  0.05. there were no significant differences in hydration of cecum contents be- tween the groups p  0.05. in the bbcd-cgas diet group the lower ph and lower concentration of ammonia in the cecum and colon contents suggested the decreased activity of urease- secreting pathogenic and putrefactive bacteria and the increased activity of bifidogenic ones.the activity of bacterial enzymes in the faeces of rats during the experiment the applied nutritional treatments differentially affected the activity of bacterial enzymes in rats' faeces table .

the similar trend was observed when the fat mass wastable 2body weight diet intake body composition and indices of the cecum and colon in ratsc control diet cf control high fat diet fgce high fat diet supplemented with chlorogenic acids in the form of green coffee extract fbcd-cgas high fat diet supplemented with chlorogenic acids in the form of inclusion complexes with b-cyclodextrin cb control diet with bread without additives bgce diet with bread supplemented with chlorogenic acids in the form of green coffee extract bbcd-cgas diet with bread supplemented with chlorogenic acids in the form of inclusion complexes with b-cyclodextrin sem summed standard error n  56 1 g100 g of body weight bw the same letter in one line means no significant differences p  0.05compared.

doirenouf m guy pa marmet c fraering al longet k moulin j enslen m barron d dionisi f cavin c williamson g steiling h 2010 measurement of caffeic and ferulic acid equivalents in plas- ma after coffee consumption small intestine and colon are key sites for coffee metabolism.

in this study rats were fed the pro-oxidative high fat diet which was supplemented with chlorogenic acids from green coffee that were used in four forms such as a purified extract complexes of chlorogenic acids and b-cyclodextrin and bread supplemented with either the extract or the b-cyclodextrin inclusion complex.

portions of b-cd 11.35 g and gce 13.03 g containing 7.08 g of cgas were dissolved in 200 ml of water incubated for 2 h at 50 degc with continuouscgas-chlorogenic acids cb control bread without additives bgce bread supplemented with chlorogenic acids in the form of green coffee extract bbcd-cgas bread supplemented with chlorogenic acids in the form of inclusion complexes with b-cyclodextrinphysiological indices in the oxidatively stressed rats.

feeding the cb bgce and bbcd-cgas diets resulted in a similar weight gain in rats p  0.05. contrary to many reports de- scribing the body weight reduction caused by the regular con- sumption of roasted and green coffee  in our study this effect occurred only at an excessive intake of fat the cf fgce and fbcd-cgas diets.

in the groups fed the diets containing extracts from green coffee beans a higher ratio of reduced to oxidized glutathione gshgssg was observed in rats' liver demonstrating an increase in the antioxidant capacity of this organ.

the sem - summed stan- dard error was calculated as the sum of standard errors for all rats divided by the square root of the total number of rats.

in case of rats consuming the fgce and fbcd-cgas diets the pscfa concentration was also lower than in the rats fed the cf and c diets.

.the inclusion of cgas inside the molecules of b- cyclodextrin increased their bioavailability because of the lim- ited interactions with the other components of the diet and bread   .selected indices related to metabolic syndrome in rats blood serum the diet composition affected biochemical in- dices of rats blood serum table .

the activities of aspartate and alanine aminotransfer- ases were lower in the groups fed bread supplemented with both forms of cgas.antioxidant indices in the internal organs and blood serum of rats the diets of different composition influencedthe indices related to the antioxidant status in rats which is characterized by the antioxidant capacity of hydrophilic and lipophilic acw and acl respectively fractions of blood serum table .

budryn1 d. zaczynska1  d. zyzelewicz 1 grzelczyk1  z. zdunczyk2  j. juskiewicz 2published online 8 april 2017 the authors 2017. this article is published with open access at springerlink.comabstract green coffee is one of health-promoting supple- ments of the diet applied in the form of either preparations or enriched food products.

a high ratio of g. budryn1 institute of food technology and analysis faculty of biotechnology and food sciences lodz university of technology 90-924lodz poland2 institute of animal reproduction and food research of polish academy of sciences 10-748 olsztyn polandreduced to oxidized glutathione in the liver and a high con- centration of antioxidants in the blood serum were observed after administration of chlorogenic acids in the form of inclu- sion complexes with b-cyclodextrin indicating that microen- capsulation increased their bioaccessibility due to the limited interactions with other components of the diet.keywords green coffee .

