based onthe connection between the intestine and liver also termed 'gut-liver axis' the gut microbiota and their metabolic by- products may influence liver pathology .dysbiosis could also promote liver fibrogenesis.

consequently tissues includ- ing the liver that are exposed to this blood flow are stimu- lated to produce cytokines such as tnf-a  and ros causing liver injury .altered bile acid metabolismprimary bile acid ba species cholic and chenode- oxycholic acids are synthesized and conjugated with glycine or taurine in the liver stored in the gallbladder and released into the duodenum until ingestion of a fat meal fig.

modulation of the gut microbiota through diet control offers new challenges for future studies.keywords nonalcoholic fatty liver disease  dysbiosis  steatohepatitis  gut microbiota  microbiomeintroductionnonalcoholic steatohepatitis nash is the most severe his- tological form of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld  characterized by the presence of hepatic steatosis and inflammation associated with ballooning degeneration with or without fibrosis .

the second hit would be the oxidative stress which promotes liver injury characterized by tissue lesions inflammation and fibrosis .according to the hypothesis of the two hits insulin resistance promotes hepatic lipogenesis and lipolysis in the adipose tissue increasing the amount of fatty acids released to the liver in the initial event.

thus the outcome suggested that dietary habits by increasing the percentage of intestinal gram-negativeendotoxin producers might accelerate liver fibrogenesis introducing dysbiosis as a cofactor that contributed to chronic liver injury in nash .human datathe first report on humans of the relationship between gut microbiota and pathogenesis of nash was published by drenick et al.

elevated pai-1 has been correlated with enhanced lps-induced liver damage and induction of liver inflamma- tory response  .several studies conducted on animals and humans support the link between lps-endotoxemia and the development of nash  -.

when the liver function is compromised more ba appears in the circulation because the liver is not adequately removing them .

tma is subsequently oxidized inthe liver forming trimethylamine-n-oxide tmao whichinduces liver inflammation.

gastroenterology 13662015-2031day cp james of 1998 steatohepatitis a tale of two hits gastroenterology 1144842-845donnelly kl smith ci schwarzenberg sj et al 2005 sources of fatty acids stored in liver and secreted via lipoproteins in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

j clin investig 962461-2468wang b jiang x cao m et al 2016 altered fecal microbiota correlates with liver biochemistry in nonobese patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

am j physiol gastro- intest liver physiol 283g256-g265szabo g csak t 2012 inflammasomes in liver diseases.

liver int 281026-1033cope k risby t diehl am 2000 increased gastrointestinal ethanol production in obese mice implications for fatty liver disease pathogenesis.

alcohol clin exp res 15573-592gustot t lemmers a moreno c et al 2006 differential liver sensitization to toll-like receptor pathways in mice with alcoholic fatty liver.

although in most cases nash carriers present no symptoms this condition may increase the risk of cirrho- sis liver failure and hepatocellular carcinoma -.the exact cause of nash is not yet clear but studies have suggested the role of the gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of this disease -.

the steatosis itself increases the sensitivity of the liver to the second hit.

