showed that systemic inflammation does not activate gut dendritic cells and hence th17 cells when the mice are not pregnant.

in addition the study demonstrated that elevated il- 17a responses during mia were due to the activation of dendritic cells a key antigen-presenting cell type interacting with pre-established memory th17 cells within the sfb-colonized gut.together these murine studies provide further definition of the mechanisms ofmia-induced behavioral changes and also open new ways of thinking about how the pathogenesis of asd intersects with maternal inflammation brain devel- opment and environment.

furthermore mia cortical pathol- ogy possesses a narrow developmental window  suggesting that developing neural networks may have a restricted window of sensitivity to il-17a or that mia-induced il-17a production by gut th17 cells is itself somehow regulated over the course of gestation.

this remark- able work also revealed that the source of il-17 was t helper 17 th17 cells acd4 t cell subset that plays a key role in combating bacterial and fungal infections and in the maintenance of gut homeosta- sis.

this work took advantage of the fact that c57bl6 mice purchased from taconic biosciences tac contain a high number of gut th17 cells because they are colonized with a strain of a seg- mented filamentous bacterium sfb.

by contrast mice purchased from the jackson laboratory jax lack gut th17 cells and are not colonized by sfb.

the authors found a striking result in that only the offspring of tac mice are susceptible to mia-induced behavioral pathology furthermore such susceptibility - con- comitant with the induction of gut th17 cells - could be conferred on jax mice by co-housing the animals or via gastro- intestinal gavage .

one possibility is that the cytokine itself is transported across the placenta another is that th17 cells migrate from the maternal gut to the fetus.

thus il-17a produced by maternal th17 cells was hypothesized to reach the fetal circulation which would then allow it to affect fetal brain development.in companion publications in the septem- ber 2017 issue of nature the same researchers now describe additional dis- coveries regarding both the neurological and immunological components of the il- 17a mia pathway.

nature published online october 4 2017. spotlightinflammation and autism from maternal gut to fetal brainivan osokine1 and adrian erlebacher1maternal immune activation mia during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of behavioral dis- orders in the offspring of affected mothers.

both possibilities how- ever would be consistent with the emerging association between asd risk and certain pathologies of the placenta .it is important to note that the murine mia model used by the choi and huh labora- tories simulates viral infection but bacte- rial infections and autoimmune events are also associated with an increased risk of asd .

how this additional layer of regulation relates to the multitude of dynamic physiologic hor- monal and immunologic changes that accompany pregnancy remains to be determined.these pregnancy-specific issues are also relevant when considering how il- 17a produced by maternal th17 cells might reach the fetal brain and whether this process might be regulated by the placenta which separates the maternal and fetal circulations and which tightly controls communication between the two compartments.

two recent studies high- light how maternal inflammation disrupts inhibitory interneuron net- works and suggest that the maternal gut microbiome may be a contribut- ing risk factor for mia-induced behavioral abnormalities.autism spectrum disorders asds are characterized by pervasive and potentially severe developmental deficits in commu- nication socialization and behavior.

for instance the known effects of diet on gut micro- bial composition might help to explain the emerging link between diet and asd incidence  this in turn may suggest ways to harness specific dietary modifi- cations during pregnancy to reduce asd risk.

12that optogenetic inhibition of s1dz in adult mia offspring abrogated the behavioral abnormalities of these mice demonstrating the potential of reversing mia-induced developmental abnormali- ties even into adulthood .although maternal inflammation is asso- ciated with increased risk of asd the incidence of asd among children of mothers hospitalized from infection remains relatively low .

