therefore our results indicate that quorum-quenching probiotic bacteria can significantly modulate the gut microbiota of swine and these beneficial effects can contribute to the improvement of performance and health in the gastrointestinal tract of weaning pigs.key words autoinducer-2 bacterial community pcr-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis pcr-dgge probiotic bacteria quorum sensing.introductiona complex and diverse community of bacteria archaea fungi and viruses in pig intestine has not yet been fully characterized due to unknown growth requirements of most bacteria hu et al.

2015. moreover most of the gut-indigenous members are obligate anaerobes and viable but not cultivatable vbnc strains li et al.

2014 hence traditional plating methods have limitations to determine the distribution of gut microbiota in the laboratory.bacterial communication among gut microbiota was recently analyzed using chemical signaling mole- cules autoinducers ai thompson et al.

for exam- ple several halogenated furanone-type molecules inhibited acylhomoserine lactone-based and ai-2- dependent qs systems against mammalian cells without specificity and cytotoxicity demonstrating potent qq in vitro manefield et al.

2002.correspondence sejong oh division of animal science chonnam national university 77 yongbong-ro puk-gu gwangju 61186 south korea.email sohchonnam.ac.krreceived 1 may 2017 accepted for publication 27 september 2017.c 2017 japanese society of animal scienceqq probiotics and gut microbiota in weaning pigs 413lactic acid bacteria lab is generally an effective tool for controlling the dynamics of gut microbiota and our group reported that lab can influence the ai-2 activity of the universal qs molecule in bacteria kim et al.

2008a song et al.

stimulation of the lactobacillus population within the gastro-intestinal gi tracts of piglets is important due in part to the potential effect of the bacteria on gut function and health liu et al.

2014. however little is known about the response of the bacterial community following lab supplementation in wean- ing piglets.here using traditional plating and pcr-dgge de- naturing gradient gel electrophoresis analyses we show that the qq-probiotic bacteria lactobacillus aci- dophilus 30sc specifically reduces the populations of coliforms while stimulating the probiotic community including the lactobacillus and bifidobacterium genera in weaning piglets.materials and methodsbacteria and growth conditionsthe l. acidophilus strain 30sc isolated from pig intes- tine oh et al.

2000 2011 hereafter 30sc was grown in de man rogosa sharpe mrs broth difco detroit mi usa at 37degc for 18 h. enterohe- morrhagic escherichia coli ehec o157h7 atcc 43894 wild-type and the luxs isogenic mutant kim et al.

the vibrio harveyi bb152 and bb170 strains were used to identify ai-2-like activity and were grown aerobi- cally at 30degc in ai bioassay ab medium surette  bassler 1998. prior to use in experiments all strains were sub-cultured at least twice.detection of qq activity and biofilm inhibitionthe cell extracts of 30sc were prepared using a pre- viously described method kim et al.

2006. the con- ditioned medium cm from e. coli o157h7 used to measure ai-2 activity was prepared using a method described previously kim et al.

the presence of ai-2-like activity in the cm was tested using the v. harveyi bb170 reporter strain ai-1 sensor negative and ai-2 sensor positive fol- lowing a previously described method kim et al.

ai-2 activity was normalized using the light production of the positive control strain v. harveyi bb152 as 100 activity.the biofilm formation protocol was adapted from methods described previously kim et al.

the energy contents of the diets and feces were determined using an adiabatic bomb calorimeter c5000 ika labortechnik ngoc et al.

2011. after measuring the cr2o3 content in the feed and feces using the method proposed by bolin et al.

