ap 0.0001 vs. prior delivery 0.0217 vs. prior conception bp 0.0116 vs. prior delivery cp 0.0032 vs. prior delivery 0.0378 vs. prior conception dp 0.0043 vs. first conception ep 0.0914 vs. prior conception 0.0734 vs. prior delivery.provided in table .

it appears that alterations in the vaginal microenvironment in women with a prior conception or delivery favor the proliferation of gardnerella l. iners and l. gasseri at the expense of l. crispatus.what are the implications of our observation that the vaginal microbiota differs depending on prior pregnancy history first of all it suggests that future studies designed to address the influence of the vaginal microbiome on pregnancy outcome must invariably take into account the pregnancy history of the women being evaluated.

gardnerella as the most abundant bacterial genus increased from 3.8 in women with a first conception to 15.4 and 14.3 in those with a prior abortion or birth respectively p 0.05. l. iners dominance was also associated with a history of spontaneous abortion p 0.02. the composition of the vaginal microbiome and its influence on pregnancy outcome varies with pregnancy history.lactobacillus species tend to dominate the vaginal microbiome to a greater extent during pregnancy than when women are not pregnant .

despite these properties the decrease in l. crispatus abundance in women with a prior conception suggest that its influence on pregnancy outcome is reduced in multiparous pregnancies.the expression of genes that inhibit pro-inflammatory immune system activation are up-regulated during pregnancy to minimize interference with proper fetal and maternal cell differentiation fetal organ development and pregnancy progression.

this time period was studied because successful implantation of the embryo into the uterine wall and initiation of vascular changes leading to development of the placenta during the first trimester may be the stages most susceptible to pregnancy disruption.resultscharacteristics of the study population - women with their first known conception women with no deliveries who had either a prior pregnancy termination or a spontaneous abortion women with a prior delivery - are1division of immunology and infectious disease department of obstetrics and gynecology weill cornell medicine new york new york usa.

each woman's prior pregnancy history - first conception prior spontaneous pregnancy loss previous delivery - was not known at the time of sample collection.

it is also possible that an unknown num- ber of women in the first conception group had a prior pregnancy that ended in an early stage abortion without the woman's awareness and that their designation as having no prior exposure to the products of conception is incorrect.

lactobacillus crispatus was the numerically most abundant bacterium in 76.4 of women witha first conception 50.0 with only a prior spontaneous or scheduled abortion and 22.2 with a prior birth p  0.01. l. iners was the most abundant bacterium in 3.8 of women with a first conception as compared to 19.2 p  0.03 and 20.8 p  0.03 in those with a prior abortion or birth respectively.

these differences in l. crispatus abundance between women with their first concep- tion and those with a prior birth p  0.0001 and between women with a prior abortion only and those with a prior birth p  0.0116 were significant.

thus the contribution of specific vaginal bacteria or groups of bacteria to pregnancy outcome needs to be reevaluated and may differ depending on pregnancy history.

in addition it remains unknown whether previous pregnancy history influences the composition of the vaginal microbiota in later pregnancy stages or postpartum.

there was no association between a history of spontaneous abortion and maternal age or gesta- tional age at the time of birth.discussionhere we provide evidence that a prior conception influences the relative composition of the vaginal microbiota during the first trimester of pregnancy.

women with a prior birth or even only an induced or spontaneous abor- tion had a vaginal microbiota in the index pregnancy that was qualitatively and quantitatively different from that present in women experiencing their first conception.

adverse pregnancy outcomes among women with prior spontaneous or induced abortions.

relative abundance of bacteria in the vaginal microbiome in first trimester pregnant women 52 with their first known conception 26 with a prior spontaneous or induced abortion but no deliveries and 77 with at least one prior birth was determined by classifying dna sequences from the v1-v3 region of bacterial 16 s rrna genes.

