however several countries have prohibited or are in the process of prohibiting non-therapeutic uses of antibiotics in poultry awad et al.

of the factors that may be responsible for the gut health and performance of chickens commensal mi- crobiota in the gut seem to have pivotal roles as they may help to direct the development of gut structureqc 2016 poultry science association inc. received june 6 2016.accepted august 28 2016.1corresponding author 966and morphology modulate the immune responses of- fer protection from luminal pathogens as well as aid digestion and utilization of the nutrients rinttila and apajalahti  sugiharto .in recent times several feed additives have been ap- plied to replace the use of antibiotic as growth promot- ers and the most recent of these additives are prebiotics probiotics synbiotics and postbiotics loh et al.

sugiharto .prebiotics inulin are non-digestible feed ingredients capable of stimulating the activity and growth of na- tive beneficial bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract and eliminating the pathogenic ones alloui et al.

they have shown promise in controlling pathogens such as escherichia coli and salmonella and in stimulating the growth of bifidobacteria and lactobacilli thus pro- moting health and performance of animals jung et al.

bogus-lawska-tryk et al.

inulin has been recognized as a potent substitute for antibiotics rebole et al.

moreover pro- biotic bacteria have been shown to induce epithelial cell expression of il-6 and il-10 which potentiate iga pro- duction through b-cell maturation shang et al.

schultz et al.

as a substitute for probiotics metabolite products synthesized from pro- biotics known as postbiotics could be used.postbiotics have been shown to have many beneficial probiotic effects on growth performances and particu- larly in the gut health when used as an additive in an- imal diets thanh et al.

thu et al.

loh et al.

thus the ob- jective of this study was to examine the influence of a combination of inulin and postbiotics on growth perfor- mance cecal bacterial population volatile fatty acids and ileal cytokine expression in broiler chickens.materials and methodspostbiotics and inulinthe stock culture of lactobacillus plantarum rg14 was prepared as described by kareem et al.

to our knowledge the 1.0 inulin was chosen based on our previous research kareem et al.

the cecal digesta were kept frozen at 20c until micro- biota analysis.genomic cecal dna extractionbacterial quantification was conducted following the method of navidshad et al.

58c for lactobacilli 60c for bi- fidobacteria e. coli enterococcus and enterobacteria for 30 s respectively and extension at 72c for 20 s navidshad et al.

