similar to what we have previously demonstrated ms induced morphological damage in the colon but not in the ileum in addition ms induced a significant increase in crh levels in plasma compared to controls 1c.to elucidate the roles of crhr1 and crhr2 in ms-induced gut injury we administered i astressin a non-specific crhr antagonist of both crhr1 and crhr2 ii antalarmin a crhr1 antagonist or iii astressin-2b a crhr2 antagonist prior to ms on each day from postnatal day 5 to 9 1d.our group has shown that ms induces the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines il-6 tnfa andinos in colonic epithelium.

to distinguish the roles of crhr1 from crhr2 in ms-induced activation of lgr5 iescs we compared the effectsfigure 2. ms-induced intestinal epithelium injury was crhr1 dependent.

crhr1 induces colonic injury while crhr2 promotes healing and repair of the intestine 5.stress during early life plays an important role in gut disorders such as nec however there is limited infor- mation on the role of crhrs in mediating neonatal intestinal injury or intestinal repair.

inhibition of crhr1 has been shown to dramatically reduce intestinal injury in animalfigure 5. schematic diagram of crh in ms-induced intestinal injury.

crhr1 signaling mediates intestinal injury by promoting intestinal inflammation affecting epithelial cell permeability and morphology and altering the colonic microbiome in response to ms. in contrast crhr2 mediates the activation of intestinal stem cells and is important for epithelial repair after injury.

several studies indicate that intestinal epithelial stem cells are capable of initiating gut repair in a variety of injury models but have not been reported in ms. the pathophysiology of ms-induced gut injury and subsequent repair remains unclear but communication between the brain and gut contribute to ms- induced colonic injury.

interestingly crhr1 promotes intestinal inflammation and angiogenesis in an animal model of colitis but the effects of crhr1 are reversed by crhr2 activation.

our study demonstrated that the crhr1 antagonist antalarmin reduces colonic damage by modulating the mucosal immune system improving intestinal barrier function and stabilizing gut microbiota in a model of ms. blocking crhr1 with antalarmin did not interfere with lgr5 iesc-mediated initiation of epithelial repair while the crhr2-selective antagonist astressin-2b did.

lgr5-egfp-ires-creert2 mice were obtained from the jackson laboratory sacramento usa to study the state of intestinal stem cells in their resulting pups after exposure to our ms model.pups were injected with the following drugs at the same time each day between p5 and p9 before ms occurredi antalarmin a crhr1 antagonist 20 mgkgday subcutaneously n 10 ii astressin-2b a crhr2 antag- onist 150 mgkgday subcutaneously n 10 or iii astressin a non-specific crhr antagonist inhibiting both crhr1 and crhr2 60 mgkgday intraperitoneally n 10. injection was performed without any complica- tions.

we investigated the roles of the crh receptors crhr1 and crhr2 in ms-induced intestinal injury and subsequent repair.

to distinguish their specific rolesin mucosal injury we selectively blocked crhr1 and crhr2 with pharmacological antagonists.

our results show that in response to ms crhr1 mediates gut injury by promoting intestinal inflammation increasing gut permeability altering intestinal morphology and modulating the intestinal microbiota.

thus selectively blocking crhr1 and promoting crhr2 activity could prevent the development of intestinal injuries and enhance repair in the neonatal period when there is increased risk of intestinal injury such as necrotizing enterocolitis.neonatal maternal separation ms is a documented model of stress in early life.

our study aims to distinguish the roles of crhr1 and crhr2 in ms-induced intestinal injury and repair during early postnatal life postnatal days 5-9 in mice.

in the present study the increases in il6 tnfa and inos were inhibited by pre-treatment with astressin similarly antalarmin but not astressin-2b prevented the ms-induced elevation in pro-inflammatory cytokines these results confirm that ms induces an increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines via crh which can be inhibited by blocking crhr1.ms-induced mucosal injury is dependent on crhr1.

