indeed theinteraction of hnf1a and sp1 to the slc23a1 and slc23a2 promoter respectively was significantly p  0.01 for both reduced in lps- treated caco-2 cells compared to control cells a  b. collec- tively these findings in both caco-2 cells and mouse jejunum suggest that the decreased aa uptake in lps treatment can be attributed to the lower level of transcription of both slc23a1 and slc23a2 genes.discussionsystemic inflammation as indicated by the presence of circulating lps levels in human plasma is linked to a considerable increase in risk of morbidity and mortality .

subsequently we examined the protein and mrna expression levels of hnf1a and sp1 transcription factors which are needed for basal slc23a1 and slc23a2 promoter activity and found that they were significantly decreased in the lps treated caco-2 cells and mouse jejunum this was reflected on level of the observed reduction in the interaction of these transcription factors with their respective promoters in caco-2 cells treated with lps.

primers used in this study were synthesized by sigma genosys woodlands tx.culturing of caco-2 cellsconfluent monolayers of human-derived intestinal epithelial caco-2 cells derived from a 72 years-old adult male were used in these ex- periments atcc manassas va. caco-2 cells were maintained in emem gibco medium supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum fbs and antibiotics at 37 degc in a co2 incubator.

for the latter experiments cells were serum starved to synchronize the cell cycle to obtain rela- tively homogenous population of cells overnight and then treated with 50 mgml lps a concentration that is relevant to the endotoxin level in the gut in emem medium supplemented with 0.5 fbs.generation of mouse enteroids and lps treatmentintestinal enteroids from 12 weeks old male mice were prepared by following the established procedure of sato et al.

after 24 h of transfection cells were treated with lps 50 mgml for a further 48 h and subse- quently lysed and both firefly and renilla luciferase activity measured using a 2020 luminometer .western blot analysisfor western blot analysis cultured caco-2 cells mouse jejunal tis- sues and enteroids were homogenized in ripa buffer sigma in the presence of a complete protease inhibitor cocktail roche nutley nj.

relative protein expression was quantified by normalizing the signal intensity against b- actin using application software in the odyssey infrared imaging suiteversion 3 li-cor biosciences.chromatin immunoprecipitation assay chip and qpcrcaco-2 cells 4 x 106 cells were serum starved overnight and used to performed chip assay using the simple chip enzymatic chromatin ip kit cell signaling inc. danvers ma as described previously .

exposure of the cells to lps led to a significant p  0.01 inhibition in aa uptake compared to simultaneously performed experiments in unexposed caco-2 cells a. a similar effect was seen following in vivo ex- posure of mice to lps.

western blot analysis showed a significant reduction in hnf1a and sp1 protein levels in caco-2 cells a  b and mouse jejunum c  d. real-time pcr data showed a significant inhibition of hnf1a and sp1 mrna expression in caco-2 cells 98.50 - 8.6 and 43.3 - 6.5 for hnf1a and 99.6 - 0.81 and 53.80 - 16.3 for sp1 control and lps treated  relative to control p  0.01 for both and mouse je- junum 100.33 - 24.39 and 23.0 - 9.8 for hnf1a and100.2 - 14.1 and 42.2 - 10.5 for sp1 control and lps treated  relative to control p  0.05 for both.

inhibition of intestinal ascorbic acid uptake by lipopolysaccharide is mediated via transcriptional mechanismsveedamali s. subramanian subrata sabui hamid moradi jonathan s. marchanthamid m. saida departments of medicine physiology and biophysics university of california irvine ca 92697 united statesb department of veterans affairs medical center long beach ca 90822 united statesc department of pharmacology university of minnesota medical school mn 55455 united statesa r t i c l e i n f o keywords svct-1 svct-2transport uptake enteroids vitamin ca b s t r a c t ascorbic acid aa accumulation in intestinal epithelial cells is an active transport process mainly mediated by two sodium-dependent vitamin c transporters svct-1 and svct-2.

therefore the objective of this study was to investigate the effects of bacterially-derived lps on aa homeostasis in en- terocytes using caco-2 cells mouse intestine and intestinal enteroids models.

pre-treating caco-2 cells and mice with lps led to a significant decrease in carrier-mediated aa uptake.

the svct-1 and svct-2 are expressed at apical and basolateral membrane domains respectively in intestinal epithelial cells  and the two human and mouse transporters share significant similarities at the amino acid level .lipopolysaccharide lps acts as a potent activator of the in- flammatory response in the intestine which contains high levels of lps from gut microbiota and pathogens such as salmonella .

as a potential explanation for these observations we hypothesized that lps exposure affects the aa uptake in intestinal epithelial cells.

consequently in this study we have evaluated the impact of lps on the vitamin c transport system using several different experimental models for aa accumulation including human intestinal caco-2 cells in vitro primary tissue from lps ex- posed mice in vivo and intestinal enteroids ex vivo.

levels of the transcription factors he- patocyte nuclear factor 1 hnf1a and specificity protein 1 sp1 as well as the interaction of these transcription factors with their re- spective slc23a1 and slc23a2 promoters were also markedly de- creased in lps-treated caco-2 cells compared to controls.

