four-day metronidazole treatment significantly increased the abundance of e. coli to averages of 3.35 x 109 and 1.24 x 109 cfug feces in the group with metronidazole treatment after wild mouse e. coli isolate colonization wmec-metfig 6 distal colon sections from con met ec and ec-met mice 4 days after metronidazolewater treatment were stained with hematoxylin and eosin.

in contrast in the absence of e. coli the met group did not exhibit upregulation of tnf-a.. the results suggest that the immune homeostatic imbalance of colonic epithelium triggered by metronidazole treatment was driven by the initial commensal microbial composition profile.in the long-term metronidazole treatment experiment the stimulating effects of metronidazole on colonic commensal e. coli growth were stable .

a recent study which used metronidazole and vancomycin to treat wild-type c57bl6 mice from jackson laboratory showed that the populations of members of enterococcus and proteobac- teriaunclassified and of novel members of lactobacillus and clostridium greatly expanded with metronidazole treatment and that those of lactobacillus aviarius enterococcus faecalisklebsiella oxytoca and akkermansia muciniphilia expanded with vancomycin treatment.

the cages were allocated to 6 treatments n  5 a no-treatment control con wild mouse e. coli isolate colonization wmec rat e. coli isolate colonization rec metronidazole treatment met metronidazole treatment after wild mousee.

coli isolate-colonized mice metronidazole treatment did not significantly affect the expression of these two genes in conjunction with e. coli proliferation and .discussionthe results of this study show that the preexisting composition of commensal microbes plays an important role in how the host responds to antibiotic treatment.

for enumeration of e. coli in mouse feces samples were taken before metronidazole treatment and after 14 days a1 or 4 days b1 and c1 of metronidazolewater treatment.

the cages were allocated to 4 treatments a no-treatment control con e. coli colonization ec metronidazole treatment met and metronida- zole treatment after e. coli colonization ec-met.

data were analyzed in a completely randomized design and the fixed effects of the treatment in the model were e. coli presence and metronidazole treatment and their interaction.

it was noted that in studies where reg3f expression dropped in response to metronidazole there was a lack of escherichia coli whereas in experiments where reg3f expression increased e. coli flourished in response to metronidazole treatment.

under conditions of treatment with metronidazole the group with e. coli colonization showed a greater reduction in alpha diversity than the met group shannon index p  0.05 .overall structural changes of gut microbiota in response to metronidazole treat- ment.

c body weight change during the e. coli treatment and after 4 days of metronidazolewater treatment.

this differ- ence may be explained by the nature of the shifts in the microbiome seen in the previous rat study compared to the current study supporting the concept that re- sponses to antibiotic treatment vary depending on the preexisting microbiota.an array of cytokines was analyzed in the colon of mice in response to antibiotic treatment as an indicator of intestinal inflammation.

we had noted variation in colonic expression of c-type lectins regenerating islet-derived protein 3f3 reg3f3 and reg3f after metronidazole treatment in a mouse model.

remarkably this single commensal bacterium in the context of a complex population led to varia- tions in host responses to metronidazole treatment including increased expression of antimicrobial peptides reg3f3 and reg3f and intestinal inflammation indicated by tumor necrosis factor alpha levels.

it has been shown that metronidazole treatment significantly increased the expression of reg3f in the distal colon of mice indicating increased microbial stimulation of the epithelium and a weakened mucosal barrier .

