neonatal mice possess fewer cd103 dcs in the intestinal lamina propria than weaned and adult mice .

in adult mice adoptive transfer of stimulated bone marrow derived dcs in dt-treated cd11c-dtr mice significantly lowered parasite load .

the scidbgmn mice died within 16 days of c. parvum infec- tion whereas 100 of scidbg mice exposed to the parasite sur- vived .

in a mouse model of malnutrition in which 21-day-old wild-type mice were fed a low protein diet isocaloric chow containing 2 protein before infection and during the entire experiment after infection mice receiving daily gavage of cpg- odn1668 had less body weight loss and a slightly decreased par- asite burden in the ileum .

adult mice are much more resistant than neonatal mice to c. parvum infection.

antibiotic-treated adult mice were still resistant to c. parvum infection whereas germ-free adult mice could be moderately infected .

in our laboratory experimental infec- tion of germ-free neonatal mice and neonatal mice born to antibi- otic-treated mothers unexpectedly revealed no significant difference in terms of parasite load and kinetics of elimination rel-fig.

a tlr4- mediated response was required for efficient eradication of the infection in a model of biliary cryptosporidiosis in which c. parvum was injected into the gallbladders of adult mice  .

in contrast deficiency of both tlr4 and tlr2 did not result in higher parasite load in the intestine of neonatal mice in a natural model of infection .

indeed persistent microbiota exposure leads enterocytes to quickly downregulate tlr signalling shortly after birth to avoid a chronic inflammatory response in the gut possibly explaining the difference .invasion of enterocytes by c. parvum activates nuclear factor-kappa b nf-jb signalling and subsequent production of chemoki- nes attracting immune effector cells to the site of infection   a. we were the first to show in vitro and in vivo in a model of human intestinal xeno- grafts in scid mice that c. parvum infection of intestinal ecsfig.

among the chemokines produced by intestinal ecs during infection cxcl10plays a major role in the ifn-c dependent protective immuneresponse of neonatal mice by recruiting dendritic cells dcs  see section .

its neutralisation or genetic depletion renders mice much more susceptible to infection  .

cryptosporidium parvum can cir- cumvent this protection during infection in neonatal mice bydownregulating ccl20 production independently of the ifnc-response and the presence of microbiota.

derived from mice those have been recently used as models for c. parvum infections .

in mice the situation has recently been clarified using the marker cd64 to identify monocytesmacrophages   among the cd11cmhcii cells.

