if tumor cells are not completely eliminated then immune inhibitory pathways suppress t cell activation as part of a negative feedback loop.as dngr1 which potentiates cross-presentation of an- tigens derived from necrotic cells 42 and secrete il-12 leading to th1 polarization 43 44.the role of type i ifns is critical in the early stag-es of anti-tumor immune response because a blocking antibody against this cytokine prevented rejection of atransplantable immunogenic tumor if administered with- in the first 4-6 days of tumor growth but had no effect at later time points 32. indeed at this early stage type i ifn is produced by cd11c cells in the tumor-draining lymph node in the b16 melanoma model 31. in fact in this model type i ifn is also induced in tumor-in-filtrating dcs and myeloid cells as early as day 1 after tumor inoculation 45. type i ifns are also expressed by leukocytes in the tumor and tumor-draining lymph node in an autochthonous melanoma model driven by melanocyte-specific activating mutation in braf and deletion of pten 45. recently it was demonstrated that cd103 dcs are uniquely capable of transporting tumor-derived antigens to the tumor-draining lymph node in a ccr7-dependent manner where they prime antigen-specific cd8 t cells 46. this process was augmented in an ifnar-dependent manner revealed by a combination treatment of tumor-bearing mice with fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand flt3l and intratu- moral injection of polyinosinicpolycytidylic acid poly ic.

the improvement of tumor control with this treat- ment was attributed to flt3l-mediated expansion of the tumor-infiltrating cd103 dcs and their activation by poly ic via the toll-like receptor 3 tlr3-tir-domain containing adapter-inducing ifn-b trif pathway 46. collectively these findings support a model in which type i ifn production in the tumor facilitates antigen cross-presentation by batf3 dcs which then migrate via the lymphatics to the tumor-draining lymph nodes where they cross-prime naive cd8 t cells.in further support of a pivotal role of batf3 dcs in anti-tumor immunity a recent study demonstrated that cd103 dcs in the lung internalize membrane-bound cytoplasmic material which they termed cytoplast re- leased in the lung vasculature by circulating tumor cells 47. as early as 72 h after injection of ova-expressing tumor cells these cytoblast-loaded cd103 dcs were detected in mediastinal lymph nodes clustering together with adoptively transferred ot-i t cells which exhib- ited a morphology consistent with cell activation.

through the expres- sion of peripheral node addressins pnad and ccl21 on the luminal endothelial surface these blood vessels supported the extravasation of naive cd8 t cells which were subsequently activated in the tumor 48 49. thus intratumoral expression of type i ifns may even prompt tumor-infiltrating batf3 dcs to cross-prime naive cd8 t cells in the tumor bypassing the need for migration to the draining lymph nodes.the sting pathway and innate immune sensing of tumorsa major conundrum had been how antigen-present- ing cells apcs in the tumor microenvironment could productively cross-present tumor antigens to t cells in the absence of pathogen-derived factors.

apart from checkpoint blockade therapy the therapeutic effects of chemotherapy with oxaliplatin or of anti-il-10r plus cpg were facilitated by gut microbes 95 96. in these contexts the therapeutic effect mediated by the microbiota relied on the production of cytokines by myeloid cells 95 or translocation of bacteria to peripheral organs which increased th17 cells involved in the anti-tumor response 96. overall these seminal studies demonstrate how dif- ferent commensals affect the basal state of endogenous innate immune cells and could favor anti-tumor responses as well as affect the therapeutic effect of immunotherapies and conventional anti-cancer treatment.mechanisms of t cell exclusion from tumors linked to defective innate immune interactionsclinical responses observed to immunotherapeuticinterventions have been strongly associated with the baseline presence of a cd8 t cell infiltrate 9 97. gene expression profiling of the tumor microenvironment has revealed the presence of t cell transcripts chemokines and a type i ifn gene signature in a major subset of hu- man cancers 9 23 98 99. this t cell-inflamed tumor microenvironment gene signature has been associated with clinical response to therapeutic vaccines the an- ti-ctla-4 mab and more recently anti-pd-1 mab 100 101. using immunohistochemical approaches the pres- ence of cd8 t cells in the tumor itself or at the tumor margin has been correlated with anti-pd-1 efficacy 15. interestingly on-treatment biopsies revealed the accu- mulation of ki67 t cells in responding patients arguing that in situ proliferation of anti-tumor t cells is a major component of clinical efficacy.the above observations have suggested that the ab- sence of tumor-infiltrating cd8 t cells approximates a state of resistance to checkpoint blockade immunother- apy.

in a model of cu- taneous skin tumors induced by 712-dimethylbenza anthracene dmba sting-deficient animals showed a better outcome 64. this was explained by the persistent generation of downstream cytokines and recruitment of phagocytes which created an inflammatory milieu that promoted tumor development 54 64. it also has been reported in the context of a non-immunogenic transplant- able tumor that deficiency of sting increases tumor protection.

the phos- phorylated stat1 and stat2 in complex with interfer- on regulatory factor 9 irf9 translocate to the nucleus and activate the transcription of interferon-stimulated genes by binding to ifn stimulatory response elements in their promoters 25. in addition to a well-documented involvement of type i ifns in anti-viral immunity and responses to intracellular pathogens other studies have revealed a beneficial role of type i ifns in the control of tumor growth 26-29. importantly dunn et al.

the initial innate immune sensing of tumors results in recruitment activation and clonal expansion of tumor antigen-specific cd8 t cells which have the potential to kill cognate tumor cells.

one explanation for the failure of complete tumor elimination by spontaneous immune responses is the observation that tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes tils become dysfunctional via dominant suppressive mecha- nisms in the tumor microenvironment 13 14. among these mechanisms are the induction and recruitment of immunoregulatory cells as well as the upregulation of inhibitory pathways such as those initiated by the checkpoint receptors cytotoxic t-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 ctla-4 and programmed cell death protein 1 pd-1 expressed on tils.

antibody-mediated blockade of ctla-4 and pd-1 or its ligand pd-l1 has yielded remarkable treatment outcomes in metastatic melano- ma and also non-small cell lung cancer kidney cancerbladder cancer and hodgkin's lymphoma 15-22. thus in patients with t cell-inflamed tumors elimination of selected suppressive mechanisms in the tumor microen- vironment and reactivation of the dysfunctional t cells leads to improvement of tumor control.

despite these positive advances only a fraction of cancer patients within each tumor type exhibits a spontaneous t cell-in- flamed tumor phenotype and clinical response to these checkpoint blockade agents.

they are recruited back to the tumor microenvironment under the influence of cxcl9 and cxcl10 also released by batf3 dcs in the tumor microenvironment.

dynamic movement of infiltrated cd8 effector t cells results in direct contact with tumor cells which can lead to tumor cell death.

the association between a type i ifn gene signature and t cell infiltration in hu- man cancers as well as mouse tumor models allowed a focus on innate signaling pathways capable of inducing type i ifns 23 31 32. as described above deficiency in ifnar or the downstream transcription factor stat1 in host cells resulted in impaired priming of t cells against tumor-associated antigens 31 32. production of ifn-b was detected in response to tumor challenge in tumor-draining lymph nodes predominantly by cd11c cells consistent with dcs as a major source.

other cells in the tumor can contribute to production of type i ifns including tumor endothelial cells 51.the involvement of type i ifns in the innate immune sensing of cancer provided a tool for probing candidate prr pathways.

to- gether these data are consistent with the idea that sting activation in host apcs in the tumor is triggered upon successful transfer of dna from tumor cells.

