the favorable biochemi- cal characteristics and gut microbiota suggest that iop has strong activity for ameliorating cp and a beneficial effect on gut microbiota.abbreviationscp chronic pancreatits ddc 35-diethoxycarbonyl-14-dihydrocollidine iop inonotus obliquus polysaccharide gsh-px glutathione peroxidase taoc total antioxidant capacity tnf-a tumor necrosis factor alpha tgf-b transforming growth factor beta iop-l iop treated group at the dosage of 0.1 gkgday iop-m iop treated group at the dosage of 0.2 gkgday iop-h iop treated group at the dosage of 0.4 gkgday pc qingyilidan granule treated group mc model control group nc normal control group otus operational taxonomic units pls-da partial least square discriminate analysis vip variable importance in projection cca canonical correspondence analysis upgma unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean pcoa principal coordi- nates analysis ros reactive oxygen species mapk mitogen-activated protein kinase nf-kb nuclear factor-kappa b scfa short chain fatty acids.authors' contributionsyh and jq designed the experiments.

how- ever a large number of unclassified and uncultured gen- era were also shown by sequence databases the relations between cp and gut microbiota composition and how gut microbiota utilize iop under oxidant injury need fur- ther research.in summary our results showed that iop exerted phar- macological influence on cp related parameters in terms of increasing gsh-px and taoc level and decreasing tnf-a tgf-b lipase and trypsin levels.

however the overall gut microbiota structure and diversity in cp mice admin- istrated with iop was ambiguous.to verify the relationship between cp and gut microbi- ota a clinical experiment in mice was conducted to eval- uate the variations of glutathione peroxidase gsh-px total antioxidant capacity taoc tumor necrosis factor alpha tnf-a transforming growth factor beta tgf-b lipase trypsin and the overall changes of gut microbiota in feces.

however iop and qingyilidan gran- ule decreased the level of trypsin and the insignificantdifference between pc and iop groups p  0.05 sug- gested that activity of iop amounted to the commercial herb medicine that is generally used for cp therapy.otu cluster analysis diversity and richness of six groups for six groups variable regions v3-v5 of the bacterial 16s rrna gene were amplified by pcr.

the structure of gut microbiota in iop pc and nc groups shared higher similarity compared with that in mc group.based on pearson correlation analysis the correlations of six biochemical parameters and gut microbiota at phy- lum level were shown in fig.

but ddc inducement destroyedmucosal surface which was detrimental to maintaining the stability of gut microbiota and down-regulating the proliferation of intestinal probiotics.in our study iop greatly decreased the seqnum and otu due to the loss of gut microbiota which presum- ably provided space for normal bacteria to colonize in the gut and a scenario also has been observed in gut micro- biota variation of malnourished children in bangladesh monira et al.

when cp mice were administrated with iop the proportion of bacteroidetes was increased with the increasing dose of iop but fir- rmicutes was decreased.some genera such as bacteroides prevotella and lac- tobacillus in gut microbiota play an important part in the hydrolyzation of polysaccharides into short chain fatty acids scfa bach-knudsen et al.

meanwhile iop reduced the gut microbiota diversity and richness decreased the relative abundance of firmicutes increased the bacteroidetes at phylum level and regulated gut microbiota toward a healthy profile at genus level.

mice in iop treated groups were orally administrated with iop at a dosage of 0.1 iop- l 0.2 iop-m and 0.4 gkgday iop-h body weight for continuous four weeks from the second week of the ddc injection respectively.

the higher levels of gsh-px and taoc in all iop groups than those in mc group p  0.01 illus- trated that administration of iop could prevent pancreas from oxidative damage.

the curative effect of iop was not invari- ably dose-dependent just as the high and moderate dose of iop had a same effect on lipase p  0.05. simi- larly activity of trypsin in mc group was higher than that in nc group.

however iop and qingyilidan granule treatments were conducive to maintaining the microbiota structure and richness to normal level as that in nc group.

it indicated that gut microbiota in three iop treated groups and pc group were relevant to that in nc group but mc group far from other groups with pc1 accounting for 33.99fig.

the results showed that the variation of gut microbiota structure was closely related to the degree of cp and iop could remarkably change the structure of gut microbiota.61 key otus were selected by pls-da with high- est contribution to the biochemical characteristics vip score 1.0. the heatmap shown in fig.

b. this plot revealed that bacteroidetes increased by iop had significant positive correlation with gsh-px p  0.05 and taoc p  0.05 while negative correlation with tnf-a p  0.01 tgf-b p  0.01 lipase p  0.05 and trypsin p  0.05. firmi- cutes decreased by iop was negatively associated with gsh-px p  0.05 but positively associated with tnf-a p  0.05 tgf-b p  0.05 and lipase p  0.05.canonical correspondence analysis cca of six groups was shown in fig.

