outstanding issues include can gut microbiota protect insects from fungal infection do microbiota and fungal pathogens interact or do they act independently can com- mensal gut bacteria become virulent when a fungal pathogen infects an insect understanding the tripartite interactions between mos- quito host resident microbiota and fungal pathogen may yield newauthor contributions s.w.

thus alternative tools for mosquito control areurgently needed 2.an environmentally friendly alternative to chemical insecticides is offered by entomopathogenic fungi 3 4. among them is beauveria bassiana cordycipitaceae which has been widely used for the biological control of agricultural insect pests 5 and insect vectors of human diseases including mosquitoes 6. this fungus is equally effective at killing insecticide-resistant and insecticide- susceptible mosquitoes and is considered a next-generation con- trol agent against mosquitoes 7. however the relatively slow ac- tion of fungal pathogens compared with chemical insecticides has hampered their widespread application 8. to develop approaches to accelerate the speed at which a fungal pathogen kills its host a better understanding of fungus-mosquito interactions is critical.the mosquito gut is colonized by diverse communities of com- mensal bacteria the microbiota that play important roles in host physiology particularly in modulation of host immune response and the outcome of pathogen infection 9-11. the gut microbiota has been recognized as a virtual organ which is integrated into the biological system of the host and indispensable to its health 12-14. coexistence between the insect and its microbiota is mostly har- monious and in most cases is beneficial to the insect.the protective roles of the gut microbiota against incoming intestinal pathogens have been studied in mosquitoes.

bassiana down-regulated the mosquito midgut immune responses via production of the toxin oosporein caused dysbiosis of gut microbiota and translocation of bacteria from the gut to the he- mocoel where they switched from asymptomatic gut symbionts to hemocoelic pathogens and accelerated fungal killing of mosquitoes.resultseffect of the gut microbiota on b. bassiana pathogenesis in adult mosquitoes.

it appears that oosporein is involved in the down-regulation of duox in the midgut and suppression of amp genes in the carcass which might result in dysbiosis of the midgut bacteria and promotion of fungal killing of mosquitoes.discussionentomopathogenic fungi gain access to the hemocoel cavity through the external cuticle where they take up nutrients pro- duce toxins destroy host cells and eventually kill their hosts 23. historically fungal infections have primarily been studied as interactions between the fungus and the host insect without consideration of interactions with the gut microbiota.

duox-dependent ros generation plays a major role in gut immunity and the control of gut-associated bacteria 24 46. in drosophila oppor- tunistic pathogenic bacteria can be discriminated and controlled by triggering the duox-dependent gut immunity 47 48. down- regulation of duox in the midgut may cause the opportunistic pathogen s. marcescens to outgrow other commensal bacteria.in conclusion we have discovered a contributory role for the gut microbiota in promoting fungal killing of mosquitoes.

in anoph- eles and aedes removal of the gut microbiota with antibioticsrenders the mosquito more susceptible to infection by the api- complexan parasite plasmodium and by the dengue virus 15-17. gut bacteria protect their host insects against invading pathogens by stimulating the host immune response 16 or by producing antimalarial compounds 18.however recent studies have shown that the resident bacteriacan also promote or assist the gut infection of incoming patho- gens 19. the midgut bacterium serratia odorifera enhances viral infection in aedes 20 and anopheles mosquitoes 21. fur- thermore pathogens can manipulate the microbiota to enhance infection.

these data show that fungal infection results in translocation of opportunistic bacteria such as s. marcescens from the midgut to the hemocoel where they switch from asymptomatic gut symbionts to hemocoelic pathogens and fa- cilitate fungal killing of mosquitoes.fungal infection down-regulates immune gene expression in the midgut.

our findings reveal the important contribution of the gut microbiota in b. bassiana-killing activity providing new insights into the mechanisms of fungal pathogenesis in insects.anopheles  gut microbiota  dysbiosis  entomopathogenic fungus  immunityosquitoes transmit a wide range of pathogens that cause diseases such as malaria dengue yellow fever and zika which have a devastating impact on human health 1. although vector control via insecticides is a major tool for disease control intensive use of insecticides poses risks to humans and the en- vironment and creates intensive pressure for mosquitoes to de- velop resistance.

have reported that the human patho- genic bacterium anaplasma phagocytophilum causative agent of anaplasmosis appropriates the antibacterial protein of the tick vector alters the host gut microbiota and enables the pathogen to more efficiently colonize the tick 22.unlike viruses bacteria and parasites which need to be ingestedto cause disease pathogenic fungi primarily attack insects by pene- trating the host integument and proliferating in the hemolymph 23. the interplay between the gut microbiota and fungal entomopath- ogens has not been examined.

most of these are required for full fungal virulence via weakening the host immune defenses or damaging the muscular system 23 42. the destruxins produced by meta- rhizium robertsii induce flaccid paralysis and visceral muscle con- traction by targeting the ca2 channel in insects 43-45. a recent study showed that the toxin oosporein produced by b. bassiana promotes fungal infection by inhibiting polyphenol oxidase activity and down-regulating expression of antifungal peptide genes in the insect fat body 33. our study reveals that the toxin oosporein specifically mediates down-regulation of duox expression in the midgut which reduces midgut ros production.

we propose a model in which a fungal pathogen interacts with the midgut microbiota to accelerate mosquito death via down-regulation of antimicrobial peptides and dual oxidase in the midgut fig.

furthermore fungal in- fection causes dysbiosis of mosquito gut microbiota with a significant increase in gut bacterial load and a significant decrease in bacterial diversity.

insect pathogenic fungus interacts with the gut microbiota to accelerate mosquito mortalityge weiab1 yiling laia1 guandong wangab1 huan chena fang lia and sibao wanga2akey laboratory of insect developmental and evolutionary biology institute of plant physiology and ecology shanghai institutes for biological sciences chinese academy of sciences shanghai 200032 china and buniversity of chinese academy of sciences beijing 100049 chinaedited by nancy a. moran university of texas at austin austin tx and approved may 4 2017 received for review march 2 2017the insect gut microbiota plays crucial roles in modulating the interactions between the host and intestinal pathogens.

for example the gut commensal microbiota promotes viral infection directly by activating the immunosuppressive cytokine or indirectly by stimulating the proliferation of target cells 35-37.bacterial overproliferation is limited by the delicate balancebetween the commensal gut microbiota and the immune system of the mosquito host.

after topical fungal infection mosquitoes with gut microbiota die significantly faster than mosquitoes without microbiota.

