several stud- ies have characterized the gut microbiota of felines such as cats 25 but in the case of the iberian lynx only one study that analyses distal gut microbial biodiversity of one specimen has been carried out 3. for this reason further studies with a high- er number of animals are necessary to increase the understand- ing of the iberian lynx intestinal microbiota.the objective of this study was to assess the composition of the predominant microbial groups in the fecal microbiota of iberian lynx specimens from two breeding centers wheremilli-q 5 ul of dna template and 1 u dreamtaq polymerase life-tech- nologies eugene oregon usa.

contribution of each bacterial species identified from sequencing of dgge bands to similarity percentages simper between clusters i and iii was determined by using past software.resultsclustering analysis was applied to fecal microbiota dgge bands of iberian lynx specimens and the dendrogram ob- tained showed a high group similarity percentage.

37. dna was quantified using a spectrophotometer nanodrop 1000 thermo scientific.in order to compare dgge patterns of the intestinal microbiota of ibe- rian lynx the dna was amplified using 16s rdna bacterial domain-specific primers 309f 5'-atccctacgggaggcwgcag-3' and 677r-cggggggatmtctacgcatttcaccgctac-3' 30. pcr was carried out in a50 ul reaction mixture that included 1 ul 10 um of each primer 200 umdntps 5 ul 10x dreamtaq green buffer with mgcl 20 mm 37 ul h o22demonstrated that the microbiota is crucial in order to prime and orchestrate innate and adaptive host immune responses 22. this microbiota constitutes a complex ecosystem consist- ing of a big amount and diversity of bacterial species and the quantity and types of bacteria are closely linked to environmen- tal variables.

int microbiol 201 31-41 2017keywords iberian lynx lynx pardinus  fecal microbiota  biodiversityintroductionthe iberian lynx lynx pardinus is listed as endangered by the world conservation union iucn.

thus although time span between defecation and freezing of the feces was short different environmental conditions in these areas could have some effect which may be considered for future re- search.this study is the first report comparing the composition ofbacterial fecal microbiota of iberian lynx specimens from twobreeding centers of captive iberian lynx where they are con- fined.

in order to contribute to the knowledge of the iberian lynx intestinal micro- biota fecal microbiota of captive specimens from two breeding centers la olivilla and el acebuche located in southern spain were studied by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge.

shannon diversity index h' calculated for all lynx specimen samples showed medium-high values 3.05-3.46 whereas low simp- son's index values 0.05-0.09 were observed indicating low dominance of some microbial species d. range-weighted richness rr showed high values 30 indicating an habit- able environment.the bacterial species identified based on the bands se- quenced from dgge gels of fecal samples grouped in clus- ters are summarized in table 2. phyla detected in all the sam- ples included actinobacteria 0.96 to 5.86 bacteroidetes 0.11 to 6.03 firmicutes from 33.58 to 42.38 and proteobacteria specifically g-proteobacteria ranging from 54.95 to 61.76.in order to break down the contribution of each bacterial group to the observed dissimilarity between clusters i and iii fecal microbiota samples similarity percentage analysis simper was carried out.

in this way dgge band intensity is directly re- lated to the density of the corresponding 16s rdna and it is commonly accepted that only those microbial groups repre- senting 1 in terms of relative proportion are displayed in the dgge patterns 18.our results showed the presence of escherichia genus in the intestine of iberian lynx coinciding with those observed by goncalves et al.

on the other hand the dgge patterns grouped in cluster iii showed high values of similarity about 76 and included 55.55 of the specimens from el acebu- che whilst only 5.55 dgge patterns of animals from la olivilla were included in this cluster.the number of dgge bands was high in all clusters and the ecological index values calculated from the bands and densitometric curves of the gel are summarized in table 1. significant differences p  0.05 were not detected.

the limitations of dgge in microbial analysis have been previously described 43 nevertheless substantial in- formation about species composition can be obtained from very complex microbial communities such as the gut micro- biota 31. changes in dgge band abundance as reflected by bacterial diversity can indicate ecological shifts in the charac- teristics of bacterial communities 53. it is commonly ac- cepted that the intensity of the dgge band is directly related to the density of the corresponding 16s rdna.

in our study se- quencing of the predominant dgge bands of all clusters showed that the prevailing phyla are firmicutes proteobacte- ria specifically g-proteobacteria class bacteroidetes and ac- tinobacteria whereas fusobacteria were not detected as pre- dominant dgge bands.in the present work predominant dgge bands related tofig.

one of these areas is related to health and veterinary aspects and the establishment of preventive disease protocols for the captive populations is one of the program's main lines of action 54.intestinal microbiota of mammals play a very important role mainly due to facilitating the absorption of ingested food by degradation of macromolecules 41 and protecting againstpotential pathogens 9. in this way research has convincinglyanalysis of fecal microbiota.

issn print 1139-6709. e-issn 1618-1095insights into the fecal microbiota of captive iberian lynx lynx pardinusjose alberto nunez-diaz1 m. carmen balebona1 eva m. alcaide2 irene zorrilla2 miguel angel morinigo11universidad de malaga andalucia tech departmento de microbiologia campus de teatinos malaga spain.2division of sustainability and urban environment analysis and diagnostic center of wildlife-c.a.d.

this study is the first report of captive iberian lynx fecal microbiota composition.

functional diversity of fecal microbiota of iberian lynx specimens included in clusters i and iii was assessed by determining the community catabolic profiles clcps using biolog ecoplater biolog hayward ca usa.

