ws contributed to general experimental design and writing of the research article.fundingthis work was in part supported by the sfb1182 project a1 the cluster of excellence inflammation at interfaces the eu project inmare and the bmbf-project metacat.acknowledgmentsthe authors would like to thank d. hanelt and the members of the microalgae and zygnematophyceae collection hamburg for helpful discussion and for providing the microalga.supplementary materialthe supplementary material for this article can be found online at table s1  overall number of contigs generated for bacterial community of c. saccharophila mzch 10155 scenedesmus quadricauda mzch 10104 and micrasterias crux-melitensis mzch 98 including protein coding genes and data source.table s2  bin overview of the bacterial community of c. saccharophila mzch 10155 s. quadricauda mzch 10104 and m. crux-melitensis mzch 98 including phylogenetic assignment consensus score  0.8 completeness mainly mine cut off 70.0 low quality bins 25.2-66.4 genome size and gc content.table s3  rna-seq processing number of cdna sequence reads obtained for bacterial community of c. saccharophila mzch 10155 s. quadricauda mzch 10104 and m. crux-melitensis mzch 98. the results represent the average value of 3 replicas.table s4  overview transcriptomic assignment including function cogs and counting of the rna seq data of c. saccharophila mzch 10155 s. quadricauda mzch 10104 and m. crux-melitensis mzch 98 minimum rpkm value 10.0.table s5  transcriptomic assignment of the first most abundant 1000 hits of thec.

peptide separation was performed on a dionex ultimate 3000 uhplc system equipped with ananalysis using the sequest search algorithm was performed on proteome discoverer against a fasta databases containing the metagenome data of s. quadricauda mzch 10104 and common impurities.sequences obtained and genbank submissionsduring this study generated raw sequence data have been deposited to the european nucleotide archive under the bioproject number prjeb15376.assemblies of the three microalgae metagenomes are available via imgmer using the img id 3300008885 for the metagenome analysis of bacterial community of c. saccharophila mzch 10155 the img id 3300005759 for the analysis of the bacterial community of s. quadricauda mzch 10104 and the img id 3300008886 for the analysis of the bacterial community of m. crux-melitensis mzch 98.the obtained 18sits26s rrna gene sequences have been deposited in the genbank database under accession numbers kx525234-kx525236 mf326553-mf326558.resultspopulation structure of the alga and alga-associated bacterial communityprevious studies have shown that microalga obtained from strain collections are associated with various bacterial communities with a rather low diversity and that these bacteria can form tight phycosphere biofilms        .in our study sem confirmed a tight adherence of relatively few bacteria to the different alga surfaces.

bins from sediminibacterium an uncultured bacteroidetes and sphingobacterium appeared to be the main suppliers of vitamin b12 based on the rna-seq data .altogether these data imply that in the chlorella and scenedesmus microbiome the bacteria affiliated with porphyrobacter and blastomonas are transcriptionally most active while in the micrasterias microbiome the bacteroidetal organisms show highest numbers of transcripts.secretome-based microbiome analysissecretome analyses for the s. quadricauda microbiome were performed to partially verify the metagenome and metatranscriptome-based results supplementary figure s2 and .in total we identified 156 bacterial proteins in the supernatants.

thereby we established 11 high quality bins for the c. saccharophila microbiome 8 for the s. quadricauda microbiome and20 bins for the m. crux-melitensis microbiome.

lichenologist 33 73-86. hoffmann s. otto c. kurtz s. sharma c. m. khaitovich p. vogel j. et al.

in the c. saccharophila-associated microbiome 214 specific genes were expressed in the m. crux-melitensis 192 genes and in the s. quadricauda microbiome 362 genes  and .the main difference between the three microbiomes transcripts were observed with respect to genes affiliated with transport and secretion processes vitamin biosynthesis signaling pathways and flagella biosynthesis.

saccharophila and s. quadricauda microbiome .chlorella saccharophila microbiome analyses of highly transcribed genesin the chlorella microbiome the majority of the 1000 highest transcribed genes were affiliated with the a- and b-proteobacteria.

interestingly in this microbiome blastomonas appeared to be the most active bacterium as deduced from the number of rna-seq reads mapped on the secretion systems flagella biosynthesis and vitamin biosynthesis .micrasterias crux-melitensis microbiome analyses of highly transcribed genesin contrast to the trebouxiophyceae and chlorophyceae microalga in the zygnematophyceae microbiome of micrasterias the largest fraction of the highest transcribed genes originated from bacteria affiliated with the phylum of the bacteroidetes 1.9 mio reads.

36 d281-d288.fischer m. a. gullert s. neulinger s. c. streit w. r. and schmitz r. a.

for each of the three analyzed microbiomes we generated a minimum of 567 mio reads which were assembled to 174 mb of dna for c. saccharophila 162 mb of contiguous dna for s. quadricauda and 268 mb for m. crux-melitensis .to further analyze the dataset we employed the amphora2 software which uses 31 conserved bacterial proteins as phylo- genetic markers  .

the workflow's classification step is based on illumina's proprietary algorithm classifyreads and a modified version of the greengenes database v.135.for phylogenetic characterization of the strain collection species c. saccharophila mzch 10155 c. vulgaris pv minima hh mzch 10162 c. zofingiensis mzch 10156s.

the s. quadricauda microbiome was also affiliated with members of the sphingomonadaceae bradyrhizobiaceae phyllobacteriaceae caulobacteraceae comamonadaceae and unclassified bacteria.

the second evolutionary younger system is designated as effector- triggered immunity eti with the signals being perceived by variable cognate plant immune responsive receptor proteins       .within this framework we addressed the following questions in the current study can we identify specific bacterial communities associated with microalga affiliated with the trebouxiophyceae chlorophyceae and zygnematophyceae using material from strain collections that has been cultivated over long-time periods who are the transcriptionally most active bacteria in these communities on a genome transcriptome and proteome level and are the main bacterial transcripts and secretome-proteins the same as those known as elicitors to plant innate immune system to answer these questions we have systematically characterized the microbiomes of selectedfurther detailed and deep metagenome and metatrans- criptome analyses identified shared and host-specific transcripts in microalgal microbiomes.

in the microbiome of c. saccharophila the most complete bins mapped to bacteria affiliated with the following genera genus family spirosoma cytophagaceae methylobacterium methylobacteriaceae mesorhizobium phyllobacteriaceae porphyrobacter erythro- bacteraceae rhodococcus nocardiaceae uncultured hypho- microbiaceae and rhizobiales and uncultured sphingomona- dales.

while it has previously been reported that alga-associated bacteria are most likely responsible for the supply of the essential b-vitamins we provide strong evidence that the supply is provided by a rather small group of bacteria in the different microbiomes and that significant differences exist between the chlorella scenedesmus and micrasterias associated bacterial community .

