nat rev microbiol 1011 735-742 2012 j qin r li j raes m arumugam k s burgdorf c manichanh t nielsen n p f levenez t yamada d r. mende j li j xu s li d li j cao b wang h liang h zheng y xie j tap p lepage m bertalan j m batto t hansen d l paslier a linneberg h b nielsen e pelletier p renault t sicheritz-ponten k turner h zhu c yu s li m jian y zhou y li x zhang s li n qin h yang j wang s brunak j dore f guarner k kristiansen o pedersen j parkhill j weissenbach m consortium p bork s d ehrlich and j wang a human gut microbial gene catalogue established by metagenomic sequencing.

nat rev gastroenterol hepatol 9 5 286-94 2012a louveau1 i smirnov t j keyes j d eccles s j rouhani j d peske n c derecki d castle j w mandell k s lee t h harris j kipnis structural and functional features of central nervous system lymphatic vessels.

nature 523 337-341 2015a louveau1 i smirnov t j keyes j d eccles s j rouhani j d peske n c derecki d castle j w mandell k s lee t h harris j kipnis structural and functional features of central nervous system lymphatic vessels.

science 312 5778 1355-1359 2006t yatsunenko f e rey m j manary i trehan m g dominguez-bello m contreras m magris g hidalgo r n baldassano a p anokhin a c heath b warner j reeder j kuczynski j g caporaso c a lozupone c lauber j c clemente d knights r knight and j i gordon human gut microbiome viewed across age and geography.

plos one 115 e0155362 2016w s chung p louis j parkhill j vermeiren d bosscher s h duncan h j flint modulation of the human gut microbiota by dietary fibres occurs at the species level.

current review aims to provide an overview and shed some light on fundamental characteristics of the gut microbiota in modulating neurological disorders and consequently to draw up alternative strategies for using the gut microbiota or their active molecules as a therapeutic target for future diagnoses.introductionto date the exciting realization that gut microbiota play a pivotal role in nervous system activity through the creation of bioactive metabolites has increased the understanding of bidirectional brain-gut interactions 1. given the considerable amount of 1014 microorganisms that reside in the adult gastrointestinal tract growing evidences suggest that dysregulation in bidirectional microbiota-gut-brain communication is now rightly seen as a major interaction involved in the risk factors in pathogenesis development of metabolic dysfunction and several brain disorders includingautism spectrum disorders asds 2 anxiety and depression 3. assuming that gut microbiota represent an extensive reservoir of bioactive signaling molecules including gut peptides short-chain fatty acids and cytokines which are responsible for providing the host with inaccessible metabolic capabilities a large and growing variety of studies are extrapolating the findings for human inflammatory processes pain brain function and behavior 4. using this information it is possible to design a wide variety of unique compounds that may be explored for the creation of novel bioinspired molecules with various biotechnological applications.

environ microbiol 87 2214-2225 2016e vogtmann x hua g zeller s sunagawa a y voigt r hercog j j goedert j shi p bork r sinha colorectal cancer and the human gut microbiome reproducibility with whole- genome shotgun sequencing.

nature 4647285 59-65 2010s h duncan w r russell a quartieri m rossi j parkhill a w walker h j flint wheat bran promotes enrichment within the human colonic microbiota of butyrate-producing bacteria that release ferulic acid.

appl environ microbiol 77 6718-6721 2011m berk l j williams f n jacka a o'neil j apasco s moylan n b allen a l stuart a ca naseribafrouei a linlokken r wilson k rudi correlation between the human fecal microbiota and depression.

on the other hand in pathological conditions it can cause altered brain-gut interactions and consequently can exert a great risk of metabolic syndromes neuro-developmental dysfunctions and cardiovascular disease in later life 11. the uses of molecular-based approach studies have elucidatedhost-microbe interactions in detail it has long been believed that during their close co-evolutionary history it is estimated that there are more than 1000 bacterial and archaeal species in the human gastrointestinal tract 12. in total the core microbiota is dominated by 90 of bacteroidetes and firmicutes phylum 13 14. although several studies emphasize that the entire composition of the gut microbiota may widely varies widely in humans 13. in this context the microorganisms seem to be essential for host health including food processing digestion of complex indigestible polysaccharides synthesis of vitamins and inhibition of pathogens.different group of the microorganism colonized the gut including archaea protozoa fungi viruses and bacteria 14. in order the commensal and pathogenic gut microbiota are separated in the gastrointestinal tract by three distinct compartments.

for example under stress the brain could secretes corticosterone adrenaline and noradrenaline that regulate the gut functions through the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal hpa axis and thus contributing to homeostasis 33. it has previously been reported that mice with gut microbiota privation showed high concentration of hypothalamus stress hormone and conversely a reduced levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor 34. remarkably this scenario can be changed by re-colonization with a specific bacterial species including bifidobacterium infantis in adulthood suggesting that active molecules from microbiota could play a role in brain development mediating neurological functions.for this reason studies based on functional analysis mainly that the used germ-free gf animals seems to be essential to determine the microbial role in shaping mood and behavior in the host 35. moreover high evidence of gi problems occurrence in people suffering mental disorders have been also observed 20. although the direction of causality amongfigure 2. schematic illustrating of know signaling pathways which gut microbiota can influence the brain functions.

initial changes in intestinal microbiota during life can affect neurodevelopment and potentially lead to adverse outcomes of later mental health in life 32. under these conditions in case of children with autism spectral disorders asd the prevotella genera are highly enriched in the fecal microbiota of different populations 37. data set about of the autistic fecal samples was characterized by distinct and less diverse gut microbial compositions 36. moreover in such studies it was observed that the gut microbiota of children with asd in us differ even more than children living in other parts of the world especially when compared to developing countries 37. in that case autism patients seemed to be characterized by higher abundance of clostridium 38 bacteroidetes 39 desulfovibrio 40 sutterella spp.

high concentrations of phenylalanine metabolite have been found in the urine of individuals with autism and schizophrenia which is likely due to multiple species of anaerobic bacteria in the clostridium genus it was proposed that the gut bacteria produced these metabolites 48. nevertheless the role of the microbiota in regulating brain development immune function and metabolism but the composition of the microbiota in individuals with schizophrenia has yet to be investigated 49.across the evolution the gut microbiota has established important purposes including protective functions against pathogens supplying essential nutrients metabolizing compound with inaccessible nutrients such as complex polysaccharides aiding in the fermentation of non-digestible dietary fiber 50. meanwhile promoting the metabolism of peptides that consequently results in the recovery of metabolic energy for the host from gut anaerobic microbial community 51. detailed studies of origins and establishment of the host-microbe interactions in the neonatal intestine has demonstrated that microbial composition could affect by vaginally or cesarean delivery by food intake breastfeeding or baby formula aging and illness or early exposure to antibiotics 52-54. meanwhile aagaard and collaborators have evidencedthat this colonization begins before delivery 43. this speculation of early placental microbiome colonization suggests that bacterial genetic diversity present in human placenta is more similar with the human oral microbiome than others tissues including skin vaginal or gut environments 55. it is important to note that the gut microbiota-host interactions are an emergent science area and intense research has resulted in the significant advances in our comprehending under their role in the human homeostasis.

this particular interaction is constructed across y receptors throughout several neuronal pathways where this neuropeptide's involvement in controlling energy homeostasis inflammatory processes or stress resilience 66. the npy is found the most prevalent neuropeptides within the brain and given the considerable abundance the npy exhibit antimicrobial effect against enterococcus faecalis and lactobacillus acidophilus 67.analysis using a combination of bifidobacterium lactis lactobacillus rhamnosus gg and addition to altering gut microbiota showed that alteration in the gut microbiota structure can alter the gut hormone release thought an increased of that plasma levels concentrations of npy and pyy in adult rats 68. these functional implications of the npy were possible to be inferred due the npy exerts its biological actions via 5 npy receptor types a human pseudogene along the gut-brain signaling pathways 66. certainly efforts are devoted to increase our understanding of how the brain can also influenced the function and composition of the gut microbiota.

neuroscience 324 131-139 2016m l wong a inserra m d lewis c a mastronardi l leong j choo s kentish p xie m morrison sl wesselingh gb rogers j licinio inflammasome signaling affects anxiety- and depressive-like behavior and gut microbiome composition.

