hiv infection may affect both sides by altering the components of the gut microbiome and by changing the host immune response to gut microbes.microbiome alterations associated with hiv-1 infectionthe human gut bacterial microbiome consists primarily of four phyla firmicutes bacteroidetes actinobacteria and proteo- bacteria 26. composition of the gut microbiome varies sig- nificantly depending on socioeconomic factors age geography and diet 27 28. for example in children from burkina faso africa a diet high in fiber normal for that region appears to enrich the microbiome at the phylum level with bacteroidetes enriched at the expense of firmicutes and enterobacteriaceae compared with european children 27. enterotype or the general makeup of the gut microbiome appears to be shared among people sharing the same dwelling 29. at the genus level there is a relatively robust association between the plant- and carbohydrate-based diet of agrarian cultures and an enterotype with a low bacteroidesprevotella ratio 28 30. conversely an enterotype with a relatively high bacteroides prevotella ratio is associated with the animal product-based western diet which is high in protein and saturated fat.the extent to which hiv infection and resultant immunecompromise alter the gut microbiome remains controversial.

one study in germ-free mice demonstrated that segmented filamentous bacteria a gut commensal most often found in the terminal ileum were shown to be necessary for the development of th17 cells 20. additionally clostridium species likely have a role in the accumulation of tregs in mouse gut 19 21. bacteroides fragilis a prominent anaerobic com- mensal is thought to inhibit cd4 differentiation into th17 and increase differentiation into tregs in mouse gut 22. the importance of hiv infection-related dysbiosis in depletion of th17 cells was highlighted albeit indirectly by studies in siv- infected macaques that showed improvement of the frequency of polyfunctional th17 cells defined in the study as th17 cells capable of producing il-17 and ifn-g with probiotic prebiotic treatment plus il-21 supplementation 90 91. these findings are currently being investigated in human studies aids clinical trials group 5352 which will further elucidate this mechanism.finally gut microbiota may be associated with improvement in the cd4 count which continues to be an important pro- gnostic indicator and predicts non-aids events and mortality in addition to aids-associated morbidity and mortality 57 92- 96. as described above poor cd4 recovery is linked to mi- crobial translocation although it is unclear whether there is a causal association and if so in which direction 97. several authors have investigated the association between various gut bacterial taxa and peripheral cd4 recovery.

doi 10.1038 mi.2016.34.614brief reviews hiv and the gut microbiomeli s. k. r. k. leung h. x. guo j. f. wei j. h. wang k. t. kwong s. s. leec.

indeed compared with age-matched con- trols multiple groups have shown depletion of th22 cells in gut mucosa of hiv-infected individuals and one group showed an association of th22 cell depletion with markers of microbial translocation 50 80 81 85. note that not all in- vestigators endorse the loss of th22 cells as the primary cause of epithelial barrier dysfunction instead pointing to type 3 innate lymphoid cells as most important for maintenance of epithelial barrier integrity during hiv infection 80. to ad- dress the effect of hiv-associated dysbiosis on th22 expres- sion a recent small pilot study of fecal microbiota transplants fmts from healthy macaques to siv-infected macaques demonstrated increased frequencies of peripheral th22 cells after transplantation and decreased gut mucosal inflammatory markers although it did not comment on gut mucosal th22 cell frequencies 86.the components of the microbiome can directly contribute to cd4 cell depletion in hiv infection.

gut microbes 2 80-85.irvine s. l. r. hummelen s. hekmat c. w. looman j. d. habbema andg.

increased mucosal hiv-1 replication and apoptotic cd4 t cell death following bacterial exposure may help to explain how microbial translocation contributes to viral pathogenesis in the early stages of hiv infection.in addition to their contribution to the selective targeting and depletion of cd4 cells by hiv virus the altered gut microbiome may have further effects on gut th subset-related immune homeostasis.

adenoviruses in particular were associated with enteritis and progressive immune dysfunction 34. nonpathogenic siv infection in african green monkeys608brief reviews hiv and the gut microbiomedid not result in expansion of the stool virome 34. a human study from uganda found that both anelloviruses and ade- noviruses were increased in those with low cd4 counts 57 58. future studies should investigate what role if any these viruses play in disrupting the epithelial barrier integrity of the gut thereby contributing to microbial translocation.hiv infection and its disruption of host-microbe interactionshiv infection is associated with a chronic inflammatory state as represented by increased circulating soluble tnfrs 1 and 2 il-6 59 and markers of t cell activation cd38 and hla- dr expression 60. additionally hiv infection is associated with increased plasma markers for microbial translocation monocyte activation lps and soluble cd14 scd14 and epithelial barrier damage e.g.

44 e201-e205.ellis c. l. z. m. ma s. k. mann c. s. li j. wu t. h. knight t. yottert.

sign up at inside out hiv the gut microbiome and the mucosal immune systemjay liu1 brett williams1 daniel frank stephanie m. dillon cara c. wilson and alan l. landaythe components of the human gut microbiome have been found to influence a broad array of pathologic con- ditions ranging from heart disease to diabetes and even to cancer.

53 1120-1126.handley s. a. c. desai g. zhao l. droit c. l. monaco a. c. schroederj.

324 1514.relman d. a. j. s. loutit t. m. schmidt s. falkow and l. s. tompkins.

15 108.claesson m. j. i. b. jeffery s. conde s. e. power e. m. o'connor s. cusackh.

3 e484.serrano-villar s. t. sainz z. m. ma n. s. utay t. w. chun s. mannd.

70 228-235.serrano-villar s. d. rojo m. mart'inez-mart'inez s. deusch j. f. va'zquez-castellanos t. sainz m. vera s. moreno v. estrada m. j. gosalbes et al.

s. li b. s. levison and s. l. hazen.

