due to the relatively hydrophobic nature of the thuricin cd peptides it is plausible that the hydrophobic residues of trna and trnb also interact with the lipid bilayers in membranes of target cells akin to subtilosin a. an interaction of this nature between the thuricin cd peptides and the hydrophobic membrane could result in alterations of the shape of the membrane facilitating pore formation consequent depolarization and eventual cell death.kinetic fc analyses were also employed to ascertain the real-time changes in membrane potential caused by the sequential action of thuricin cd peptides in this study.

furthermore the depolarizing action of thuricin cd is accompanied by reductions in cell size and granularity producing a pattern of physiological alterations in dpc6349 cells similar to those triggered by the pore-forming single-component bacteriocin nisin a and two-component lacticin 3147. taken together these results lead us to postulate that the lytic activity of thuricin cd involves the insertion of thuricin cd peptides into the membrane of target cells leading to permeabilization due to pore formation and consequent flux of ions across the membrane resulting in membrane depolarization and eventual cell death.keywords bacteriocin mode of action cytometry membrane potential viabilityintroductionbacteriocins are ribosomally synthesized peptides that exert antimicrobial effects predominantly against closely related bacteria often in the nanomolar range .

the most drastic reduction in viable cell counts was obtained for 12 um thuricin cd with the failure to recover any colonies at timepoints 3 5 and 21 h all p  0.05. similarly the pre- incubation of cells with 1 um trna prior to adding 12 um trnb caused significant reductions in viable counts after 3 5 and 21 h all p  0.001. finally significant decreases in viable counts were also obtained for samples pre-incubated with 1 um trnb prior to adding 12 um trna all p  0.01. as was the case for the membrane potential findings described above the sequential addition of the thuricin cd peptides did not appear to be an important factor governing cell viability.discussionin this study real-time fc was utilized to monitor the time course alterations in membrane potential and physiology of sensitive b. firmus dpc6349 cells upon exposure to individual and combined trna and trnb peptides.

while syto 9 enters all cells regardless of their membrane integrity status pi usually only enters cells with a permeabilized or compromised membrane and due to its higher binding affinity for nucleic acids displaces syto 9. consequently live cells with an intact membrane generally exhibit green fluorescence as they only contain syto 9 whereas dead cells with a compromised membrane are stained red by pi.

the thuricin cd peptides were also tested at concentrations three-fold their mic 9 um  and at these concentrations it was found that the combined peptides  causedfaster depolarization approximately 5 min after addition of the peptides compared to the initiation of depolarization approximately 10 min after addition of 9 um trna  and approximately 7 mins after the addition of 9 um trnb .

the similar structure of the two thuricin cd peptides their potent activity against gram positive spore-formers and the observations from this study which indicate that sequential addition of the peptides has negligible effects point to a unique mechanism of action for these peptides.

to assess the effects of individual and combined thuricin cd peptides diluted dpc6349 cells were exposed to known equimolar concentrations of trna trnb or both peptides and incubated at 37c with vigorous agitation 400rpm.

this slower depolarizing effect compared to the combined peptides is in agreement with initial observations .light microscopy was also conducted in order to assess the impact of the thuricin cd peptides on dpc6349 cells .

exposure to the peptides also resulted in the emergence of smaller fragmented cells red circles perhaps indicative of cell lysis .sequential addition of thuricin cd peptides and effects on the membrane potential of b. firmus dpc6349the antimicrobial activity of two-peptide bacteriocins is often linked to distinct roles and sequential action ofboth components    .

altogether these results led us to hypothesize that the mode of action of thuricin cd involves pore formation eliciting membrane depolarization due to the influxefflux of ions across the membrane and ultimately resulting in lysis of the target cells.to provide further support for this hypothesis sequential addition studies were carried out whereby dpc6349 cells were initially exposed to valinomycin before being challenged with either the individual peptides or combinations of the thuricin cd peptides.

the pre-incubation of cells with sub-lethal concentrations of one of the peptides followed by the addition of higher amounts of the second peptide revealed that there was little difference between the treatments in terms of the sequential addition of the peptides when assessed with membrane integrity probes.

furthermore light microscopy analyses showed the presence of shorter rods in dpc6349 cells after 1 h of exposure to thuricin cd peptides whereas small and apparently fragmented cells resembling remnants of lysedcells were detected after 5 h of treatment.

notably we found that the thuricin cd peptides elicit depolarization of the membrane most likely as a consequence of the pore-forming ability of the peptides triggering the movement of ions across the membrane and this occurs with reductions in cell size and granularity.materials and methodsthuricin cd purificationthuricin cd for these assays was purified as described previously with minor alterations  .

thuricin cd peptides nisin a and lacticin 3147 peptides were resuspended in lb broth.

as expected at this sublethal concentration 0.25x mic no reduction in cell size or granularity accompanied the membrane depolarization triggered by valinomycin .thuricin cd peptides permeabilize and depolarize the membrane of b. firmus dpc6349in an attempt to elucidate the mode of action of thuricin cd dioc23 staining and real-time fc were used to monitor the time course impact of equimolar concentrations of individual and combined thuricin cd peptides on the membrane potential of b. firmus dpc6349 .

