the presented values are the means 6 sem n 14 6. p  .05 versus control.changes of the whole gut microbiota and the possible effects af- ter analyzing by pcr and 16s rrna gene sequencing and more precise analysis the species level of gut microbiota requires advances in sequencing.usually undigested dietary fibers as well as proteins and peptides that escape digestion by host enzymes in the upper gut can be fermented in the cecum and colon by gut microbiota.

the possible effects of antibiotics endocrine disrup- tors and pesticide residues on animal or gut microbiota and the subsequent damage deserve more attention  .in a previous study we observed that oral administration of high doses 25 50 100 mgkg of imz to male icr mice for 28 days resulted in gut microbiota dysbiosis and colonic inflam- mation .

the binding scores obtained for imz with cftr and the slc26 family were -4.9 and -6.0 kcalmol respectively.the gut microbiota composition and ionic transport function could be recovered after imz exposureto determine whether imz-induced gut microbiota dysbiosis can reverse by itself the mice treated with 2.5 mgkg imz for 15 weeks were then allowed to recover for 45 days.

not surprisingly all the qpcr and high-throughput se- quencing results in the present study indicated that oral admin- istration of imz to adult mice disturbed the balance of the gut microbiota and the bacteroidetes one of the main phyla of gut microbes in mice was significantly underrepresented in the ce- cal contents over 2 weeks during the long-term study .

our data suggested that gut microbiota and intestinal barrier were potential toxicological targets of imz.key words imazalil gut microbiota intestinal barrier mice.a large number of studies have shown that the intestinal tract plays an extremely important role in the occurrence and devel- opment of disease  .

in order to re- search how quickly imz affects the gut microbiota and how se- vere will the subsequent damage be after gut microbiota dysbiosis at different times of imz-exposure.

and the gut microbiota metabolic products are of utmost impor- tance to the host gut their functions include providing nutrients to iecs and energy to the host maintaining the ho- meostatic control of electrolytes and fluid balance and regulat- ing the function of intestine.

toxicological sciences 1621 2018 113-123doi 10.1093toxscikfx227advance access publication date november 2 2017 research articleinsights into a possible influence on gut microbiota and intestinal barrier function during chronic exposure of mice to imazalilcuiyuan jin jizhou xia sisheng wu wenqing tu zihong pan zhengwei fu yueyi wang and yuanxiang jin1department of biotechnology college of biotechnology and bioengineering zhejiang university of technology hangzhou 310032 china and research institute of poyang lake jiangxi academy of sciences nanchang 330029 china1to whom correspondence should be addressed at department of biotechnology college of biotechnology and bioengineering zhejiang university of technology 18 chaowang road hangzhou zhejiang 310032 china.

but imz did not change the diversity of mice gut microbiota both in the cecal and fecal contents .

according tounifrac weighted principal co-ordinate analysis pcoa the gut microbiota of imz-treatment deviated from the control both in mice cecal contents and feces .

recently a study by our group reported that acute imz exposure induced gut microbiota dysbiosis and colonic in- flammation in male icr mice .

such abnormal- ities indicated that in the different part of the intestine the liv- ing environment especially the microbes supplement microbes come from the proximal part of gastrointestinal tract and the nutritional condition may also play a very important role in the responds of mice gut microbiota to the imz interven- tion.

1causes a change in the gut microbiota composition and induces intestinal barrier dysfunction in mice.

oral imazalil exposure induces gut microbiota dysbiosis and colonic in- flammation in mice.

from the cover exposure to oral antibiotics induces gut microbiota dysbiosis associated with lipid me- tabolism dysfunction and low-grade inflammation in mice.

