lipoteichoic acid lta is a prominent component of the bacterial cell wall and it can elicit host cellular responses by binding to the correspond- ing receptor toll-like receptor tlr 2. interestingly lta can permeate the whole skin thus reaching cells beyond the surface.in this issue of the journal of allergy and clinical immu- nology wang et alreport that the commensal skin micro- biome plays a critical role in mc maturation in the skin.

for example a previous report demonstrated that lta can increase skin mc activity against vaccinia viruses.in this setting the protective effect was obtained by means of direct binding of lta to mcs thus leading to the release of antimicrobial pep- tides.

however rescue of mc differentiation could be obtained by either mixing of the2 mouse populations or injection of lta into the skin of germ-free mice.

surprisingly lta did not act directly on mcs to induce their differentiation because cutaneous mcs downregulated tlr2 expression.

consequently the authors demonstrated that keratinocytes increased tlr2 expression and scf production after lta exposure which in turn stimu- lated mc maturation.

0091-674936.00c 2016 american academy of allergy asthma  immunology knockout of scf caused complete lack of mcs in the skin which could not be reverted by the introduction of lta thus demonstrating the critical role of keratinocyte-derived scf in mc differentiation.the novelty of this study is that it sheds light on the pivotal effect of the skin microbiome on the final steps of mc maturation an effect that has not been appreciated thus far.

this question has not been addressed in the present study and deserves further attention because of the multiple roles that mcs are presently known to play in immune responses.although the current study focused on maturation lta can also influence mc activation and immune responses.

normal skin is populated by gram-positive commensal bacteria the cell wall of which contains lta.

on binding to its receptor tlr2 lta stimulates the production of keratinocyte-derived scf which is critical for mc maturation.

lta is also important for mc function and has been shown to stimulate mc antimicrobial activity through direct binding to mc-tlr2.

