our results suggested idf from pear pomace could prevent high-fat diet-induced obesity in rats mainly by improving the structure of the gut microbiota.materials and methodsanimal modeleight-week-old specific pathogen-free male sprague-dawley rats were purchased from vital river laboratories china license number scxk beijing 2012-0001. these rats were housed at a constant room temperature 22 - 2degc and humidity 55 - 10 and maintained on a 12-h lightdark cycle in an experimental animal room in the supervision inspection and testing center for genetically modified organisms of the ministry of agriculture beijing china license number syxk beijing 2010-0036. food and water were provided ad libitum throughout the test.

the rats were then randomly divided into four groups 8 rats per group according to average body weight and the groups were fed with a normal chow diet ncd a high dietary fiber diet hd containing 8 fiber supplement in total a high-fatdiet hf that provided 45 of its energy from fat or a high-fat and dietary fiber diet hfd.

2 which indicated an increased incidence of fasting hyperglycemia 33. in contrast the hfd rats with fiber supplement in the exhibited a significantly lower auc p  0.05 and homa-ir index p  0.05 compared with the hf rats.

clostridium leptum was decreased significantly in both the hd and hfd groups p  0.05. there were no differences in enterobacteriaceae between ncd and hd or between hf and hfd rats.

in spite of these efforts whether and how idf affects the gut microbiota key lipometabolism and satiety hormone secretion is largely unknown.for sdf many studies indicated its supplement could alter the composition of the microbiota thus preventing obesity 6 9 13. compared with sdf idf is less possible to be absorbed thus it remains in the intestinal tract and has interaction with the gut microbiota for a longer time.

generally people who possess less bacteroidetes and more firmicutes in their gut microbiota are more likely to be obese 15. with the development of high-throughput sequencing and metagenomics increasing evidence has indicated the role of the gut microbiota in the etiology of host chronic metabolic diseases such as type ii diabetes 16 and symptomatic atherosclerosis 17. as idf could hardly be absorbed the gut microbiota could be a most possible intpeormadceiafrryombetfwrueietsniisdafgaonoddhsuomuracne hoefaildthf.

these results also confirmed that the effect of idf on body weight loss was not due to reduced food consumption.many studies indicated the association of long-term sdf diet with the changes of gut microbiota towards a lean microbiota type 33. in this study we used two methods toanalyze the effects of idf on the composition of the gut microbiota real-time pcr-based method and high- throughput sequencing-based method.

in the blood biochemical analyses alt was significantly lower in the hd group than in the ncd group but this difference was not observed in the comparison between the hf group and hfd group table 3. the cholesterol and ldl concentrations were significantly lower in the hfd group than in the hf group but the tg levels increased significantly in the idf supplement groups hd and hfd compared with the ncd and hf groups table 3. no other significant differences were observed in the blood biochemical analyses table s2.preliminary detection of the mechanisms of idf responsible for weight losssatiety hormone analysis.

after 5 weeks the rats fed with high-fat diet hf group showed a significant higher weight gaining than that of rats fed with normal chow diet ncd group.

rats fed with idf-supplemented normal chow diet hd group showed an even lower final body weight compared with ncd rats.

as a result the food intake of rats in the hf group was 27.4 lower than that of ncd rats.

the less food intake of hf rats might be the reason why plasma tg concentration was not elevated compared with ncd rats.

for example in a study on diet- induced obesity mice odoribacter was less presented in obesity mice than in lean mice 38. odoribacter was increased in the bitter melon powder-treated high-fat diet- induced rats in which the inflammatory status was relieved compared with untreated rats 39. in the results of shin et al.

2017 274 856-867 httpsdoi.org10.4014jmb.1610.10058jmbinsoluble dietary fiber from pear pomace can prevent high-fat diet-induced obesity in rats mainly by improving the structure of the gut microbiota sshimin chang12 xingtian cui3 mingzhang guo3 yiling tian4 wentao xu3 kunlun huang3 and yuxing zhang1college of horticulture agricultural university of hebei baoding 071001 p.r.

in conclusion our results demonstrated idf from pear pomace could prevent high-fat diet-induced obesity in rats mainly by improving the structure of the gut microbiota.keywords insoluble dietary fiber anti-obesity gut microbiota amplicon sequencingintroductionthe long-term intake of a high-fat diet seriously affects human health and results in metabolic disorders and chronic diseases such as overweight fatty liver cardiovascular disease hypertension hypercholesteremia insulin resistance and leptin resistance 1. the prevalence of these diseases is increasing in the current society and the pathogenesis is interrelated in a complex manner 2. supplement of dietary fiber df in the diet is believed to be one of the most effective approaches to prevent the chronic diseases caused by over-intake of fat.

