aat the end of this research met and tspk.l treatments could significantly increase insulin levels by 76.25 and 103.59 respec- tively p  0.01 b. it indicated that met and tspk.l could partial recover the insulin secretion function of the beta cells.correspondingly the diabetic rats showed a significant increas- ing in the blood glucose level compared with the normal control group p  0.001. after 56 days continuously treatment of met tspk tspk.l tspk.h and pspk fasting blood glucose levels weresignificantly reduced by 42.99 29.28 24.23 and 48.40 respec- tively p  0.05 p  0.01 when compared with the diabetic group c.tspk and pspk regulated gut microbial colony in the gut environmentthe small intestinal contents of rats were cultivated for 24 h on blood agar plates to visually illustrate possible effects of tspk and pspk on dm rats.

met tspk and pspk treatments could modulate the rel- ative proportions of bacteroidetes firmicutes and proteobacteria a. this might be related to the fbg reduction effects of tspk and pspk in diabetes.relative abundance of microbial species at family level revealed that relative abundance of prevotellaceae bacteroidaceae bac- teroidetes phylum and enterobacteriaceae proteobacteria phylum in the diabetic group showed a high abundance 43.57 11.60 and 4.73 respectively compared to the normal rats 20.45 1.78 and 0.51. treated with tspk tspk.l and tspk.h and pspk significantly reduced the abundances of prevotellaceae 30.05 30.21 and 31.19 bacteroidaceae 4.52 3.15 and 3.31 andenterobacteriaceae 0.63 0.63 and 1.41. what's more com- pared with the dm group tspk.l and pspk significantly increased the abundances of ruminococcaceae firmicutes phylum 26.63 23.15. tspk.h increased that of veillonellaceae firmicutes phy- lum to 37.59 b.in addition we observed c that tspk and pspk inhib- ited the growth of prevotella genus bacteroidetes phylum.

tspk and pspk could also affect the scfas concentrations in dm rats.conclusionin summary tspk and pspk relieved hyperglycemic state in dm rats by the regulation of gut microbiota and subsequent scfas al- ternation.

the result was coincided with the results of colony in intestinal tract which cultivated for 24 h on blood agar plates .tspk and pspk regulated scfas in faecesconcentrations of scfas in faeces acetate acid propionate acid butyrate acid which were major microbial fermentation products of diets were measured to display the possible regulation effects of tspk and pspk .generally tspk.l and pspk reduced the acetate propionate and butyrate acids contents of these experimental rats b c d. therefore the total scfas contents in the groups of tspk.l and pspk rats were significantly lower than the other group a.discussionsit is now accepted that the acquisition and stability of gut mi- crobiota are controlled and influenced by both environmental fac- tors and host genetics.

the met tspk.l tspk.h and pspk rats received oral metformin 0.09 gkg tspk 0.025 gkg tspk 0.1 gkg and pspk 0.1 gkg respectively.

5. tspk and pspk regulated the structural of gut microbiota.the microbial structure in different experiment groups were analysed in different species classification level of gut microbiota.

these results suggested that the blood glucose regulation of tspk and pspk were closely related to the regulation of gut microbiota.earlier studies in humans as well as in mice reported that im- paired glucose metabolism was associated with an altered ratio be- tween the two major phyla in the human gut firmicutes and bac- teroidetes .

intestinal micro- bial diversities and the overall structural changes in gut microbiota and the contents of the short chain fatty acids scfas were discussed.methods t2d rats were treated with tspk 0.025 and 0.1 gkg and pspk 0.1 gkg for 56 days.

1. a schematic diagram of the treatment schedule in this research.except con and hfd group all rats were intraperitoneally injected with 30 mgkgd streptozotocin stz dissolved in an ice-cold 0.1 m citrate buffer for twice day 16 and day 22. rats which considered to be in diabetes mellitus serum glucose concentrations higher than 11.0 mm were randomly divided into 4 groups in the 30th day diabetes mellitus group dm metformin positive control group met tspk tspk.l and tspk.h group and pspk group.

intake of total saponins and polysaccharides from polygonatum kingianum affects the gut microbiota in diabetic ratshongli yan jianmei lu yanfang wang wen gu xingxin yang jie yuyunnan university of traditional chinese medicine 1076 yuhua road chenggong district kunming yunnan province chinaa r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c tarticle historyreceived 5 october 2016revised 19 december 2016accepted 16 january 2017keywordstotal saponin from p. kingianum polysaccharides from p. kingianum type 2 diabetes mellitus regulation of gut microbiotabackground the gut microbiota has been reported to play a critical role in metabolic diseases including in diabetes.

this research aims at investigation of their therapeutical mechanisms on diabetes based on the regulation of gut microbiota.study design type 2 diabetes t2d rats were induced by high-fat diet hfd and streptozotocin-injection from male sprague-dawley sd rats.

in addition tspk.l pspk and tspk.h showed different ad- justment on the contents of scfas.conclusion these results suggested that compared to the normal rats the structure of gut microbiota was significantly changed in diabetic rats.

it suggested that the profile of gut micro- biota in diabetic rats group were changed significantly compared to the normal rats.

therefore we tried to determine the mechanism involved in the gut microbiota regulation of dia- betic rats for p. kingianum.the results of our study demonstrated that dm rats induced by hfd feeding combined with low dose streptozotocin injec- tion were in hyperglycemia with impaired insulin secretion.

all rats were dosed by gavage once per day for eight consecutive weeks from day 31 to day 86. all rats were fasted for 2 h every day before administration of therapeutic agents.after induction by stz 50 male diabetic rats with serum glu- cose concentrations higher than 11.0 mm were randomly divided into 5 groups in the 30th day diabetes mellitus group dm met- formin positive control group met low and high dosage groups of total saponins from p. kingianum groups tspk.l and tspk.h and polysaccharides from p. kingianum pspk group.

