s. mitis made up roughly 23 of each subject's streptococcal isolates and isolates of s. salivarius and s. vestibularis including those designated s. salivariusvestibularis see materials and methods for the definition of this designation made up roughly 30. s. anginosus s. gordonii and s. tigurinus were isolated only from subject 1 as predicted by homim analysis  but homim data neither supported nor contradicted the subject-specific recovery of most other streptococcal isolates.

a total of 115 isolates were obtained from subject 1 and 129 from subject 2. after human oral microbiome database homd identification and repetitive extragenic palindromic-pcr rep-pcr fingerprinting partitioning of strains within species 48 representative strains rss were obtained from subject 1 and 71 from subject 2. within each subject streptococci made up roughly 70 of all isolates and rss 81 of 115 isolates and 34 of 48 rss in subject 1 87 of 129 isolates and 49 of 71 rss in subject 2. summarizes data on the streptococcal isolates.

six streptococcal rss from subject 1 one of which s. infantis rs 4 was anti-rps4 reactive coaggregated strongly with r. mucilagi- nosa strains a weak coaggregation was seen with the anti-rps4-reactive strain s. mitis rs 7. in subject 2 anti-rm-reactive cells were likewise seen in small clusters containing cells reactive with anti-rps3 fig.

thus the condition of rothia cells within high- biomass regions appears to be different from that of isolated cells and of cells associated with small multispecies aggregates.fig 2 a immunofluorescence localization of haemophilus and associated cells in undisturbed biofilms from subject 1. top panels 4-h biofilm.

gem-labeled cells gemella were distributed throughout the biofilm b b1 and b2 and as single cells upper right of panel b. few cells labeled solely with eub were seen b2.were distributed throughout the confluent biofilm but were also seen in small multi- species clusters consisting of a few cells.

however isolates of these species participate in high numbers of mechanistically distinct coaggregations the s. australis isolates bear rps whereas the s. infantis strains bear adhesins.

found on strains of s. oralis s. sanguinis and s. gordonii the polymers are hexa- or heptasaccha- ride repeats that contain a host-like disaccharide motif namely either gal31-3galnac the g motif or galnac31-3gal the gn motif.

s2a in the supplemental material of the four rps3-bearing rss three s. mitis rs 6 s. salivarius rs 22 and s. sanguinis rs26 coaggregated with haemophilus strains data set s1.

fructans of cariogenic s. mutans have ecological relevance as extracellular carbon storage products   and the commensal streptococcal spe- cies s. gordonii and s. sanguinis are predicted by the cazy database   to have cell surface fructosidases.

the motifs are recognized by protein adhesins on other oral bacteria particular strains of s. gordonii and s. sanguinis bind the gn motif whereas certain actinomyces strains recognize both motifs .

only two of the four could have been identified in situ.in 4-h biofilms from subject 1 cells reactive with anti-rm were seen in tight association with other cells and in clusters containing as few as three cells including those reactive with anti-rps4 .

the highest number of coaggregations seen in any streptococcal rs from subject 1 was 13 s. sanguinis rs 26. in subject 2 after removal of the two autoag- gregating rss 94 44 of 47 of the isolates coaggregated with at least one coisolatefig 1 homim analysis of biofilm dna samples heat map and existence of isolates corresponding to particular homim probes check marks.

for example 4 isolates of s. infantis hot 638 were obtained from subject 2 which displayed 2 distinct rep-pcr patterns with 2 isolates falling into each pattern.

and several streptococcus spe- cies including s. salivarius and s. australis.

four of the 10 including a probe for s. anginosusgordonii green text were reactive only in subject 1 whereas 3 of the 10 including a probe for s. dentisani brown text were reactive only in subject2.

