This evi- dence suggests an active involvement of microbiota in the etiology andor progression of this particular kidney disease characterized by the key involvement of the immune system which is known to be importantly influenced and modulated by the microbiota .

While many recent data on the intestinal microbiota and its relationship to chronic inflammation are available for CKD patients very little is known re- garding T2DM and patients with diabetic nephropathy.

Effects of a symbiotic on gut microbiota in Mexican patients with end-stage renal disease.

Serum indoxyl sulfate is associated with vascular disease and mortality in chronic kidney disease patients.

Curr Diab Rep 2017 17 16 DOI 10.1007s11892-017-0841-zIntestinal Microbiota in Type 2 Diabetes and Chronic Kidney DiseaseAlice Sabatino1  Giuseppe Regolisti1  Carmela Cosola2  Loreto Gesualdo 2 Enrico Fiaccadori1Published online 7 March 2017 Springer ScienceBusiness Media New York 2017AbstractPurpose of the Review Diabetes mellitus is a major cause of kidney disease chronic kidney disease CKD and end- stage renal disease ESRD and are both characterized by an increased risk of cardiovascular events.

Germ-free mice are resistant to obesity induced by a high-fat diet  and colonization of germ-free mice with the microbiota of obese female humans caused obesity in the colonized mouse  indicating that the composition of the microbiota can predispose to the development of obesity.

In this study glucose metabolism of germ-free mice that received the microbiota of responder subjects improved while nothing happened to germ-free mice that received the microbiota of non-responders.

Gut microbiota from twins discordant for obesity modulate me- tabolism in mice gut microbiota from twins metabolism in mice.

The aim of this review is to summarize and discuss the main pathophysiological issues of intestinal microbiota in patients with T2DM and CKDESRD.This article is part of the Topical Collection on Microvascular Complications--Nephropathy Enrico Fiaccadori 1 Unita di Fisiopatologia dell'Insufficienza Renale Acuta e Cronica Universita degli Studi di Parma Parma Italy2 Dipartimento dell'Emergenza e dei Trapianti di Organi--Sezione di Nefrologia Dialisi e Trapianti Universita degli Studi di Bari Aldo Moro Bari ItalyRecent Findings The presence of intestinal dysbiosis along with increased intestinal permeability and high circulating levels of lipopolysaccharides a condition known as endotoxemia characterize T2DM CKD and ESRD on di- alysis.

Different mech- anisms are involved due to derangement of the intestinal barrier and modifications of microbiota composition Table .In this context specific associations have been recently shown between certain intestinal  and salivary  micro- bial phylafamilies and the condition of IgA nephropathy in comparison to healthy controls with a further discrimination between progressor and non-progressor patients.

