Despite similar daily CFU doses HI-R. Pickettii-treated DIO mice had reduced levels of circulating endotoxin compared to live R. pickettii-treated mice and this group gained more weight and had reduced glucose tolerance compared to glyc- erol-treated mice.

Compared to vehicle-treated control mice R. pickettii- treated DIO mice had reduced glucose tolerance.

The epididymal white adipose tissue eWAT compartment was significantly increased in HI-R. pickettii-treated mice compared to glycerol and R. pickettii-treated mice whereas mesenteric and kidney WAT compartments did not differ between groups .

To assess if HFD feeding was a prerequisite to reduce glucose tolerance following four weeks of R. pickettii treatment lean chow-fed mice age-matched with DIO mice were gavaged daily with R. pickettii 106 CFU in 10 glycerol in PBS final volume 100ul for four weeks.

eWAT weight was higher in HI R. pickettii- treated mice compared to glycerol and R.pickettii-treated mice.

To assess if R. pickettii was caus- ally involved in development of obesity and T2DM we performed a proof-of-concept study in diet-induced obese DIO mice.

In addition circulating levels of endotoxin were increased in R. pickettii-treated mice.

To assess a potential causal role of R. pickettii in development of a diabetes-like phenotype in an obese model system we treated diet-induced obese DIO mice with R. pickettii for four weeks.

Interestingly R. pickettii-treated DIO mice had reduced glucose tolerance compared to glyc- erol treated controls.ResultsIdentification of Ralstonia bacterial DNA in mesenteric visceral adipose tissue from obese individualsBacterial 16S rDNA was PCR amplified from DNA isolated from human mesenteric visceral adipose tissue biopsies whereas PCR amplification from omental or subcutaneous adipose tis- sue biopsies barely yielded any 16S rDNA amplicons.

Based on these associative data in obese T2DM human subjects we questioned if R. pickettii could place a causal driving role in development of insulin resistance in a rodent model for obesity and insulin resistance.Metabolic effects of R. pickettii gavage in diet induced obesity DIO miceTo examine potential causality of R. pickettii in development of obesity and insulin resistance mice were fed a high-fat diet HFD 60 Kcal for eight weeks.

