estrogen directly stimulated il-1 production by macrophages suggesting that the resistance of females to disseminating dentoalveolar infections may be due to their heightened pro-inflammatory responses following bacterial challenge leading to enhanced localization of these infections.international journal of oral science 2017 9 16-23 doi1 published online 30 march 2017keywords cytokines dentoalveolar disseminating infections estrogen neutrophilsintroductiondentoalveolar abscesses and disseminating infections of endodontic origin occur as sequellae of bacterial invasion of the dental pulp.

along these lines pre-pubertal females and males had similar sepsis mortality but this was reduced by  50 after puberty in females.circulating estrogen levels are most closely correlated with infection resistance and estrogen has been shown to regulate the expression of a broad array of sexually dimorphic autosomal genes in human peripheral blood cells.female-biased gene ontology categories were highly enriched for various immune system functions including tlr3 and tlr4 pathways poly ic and lps responses genes linked to the autoimmune diseases as well as genes regulated by estrogen and lps.

if not promptly and effectively treated these infections can rapidly spread by dissection along fascial planes and result in cellulitis sinusitis deep space infections of the head and neck intracranial abscesses and frank sepsis resulting in significant mor- bidity and even mortality.the immune responses that localize these infections and preventtheir dissemination are not fully understood.

the poorest killing of internalized bacteria was observed in the anti-il-1abovx group po0.004 killing was increased and approached control levels with estrogensupplementation.il-1 production by macrophages in response to lps and estrogen to determine if estrogen upregulates il-1 as a possible mechanism for increased protection against disseminating infections weigg immunoglobulin g il interleukin ovx ovariectomy.frequency of abscessessepsis.wpo0.01 by kh2.using f. nucleatum as a model pathogen.

cd4 t cells may also participate principally by providing 'help' for b cells.in contrast male hormones are reported to be immunosuppressive and treatment with the androgen receptor antagonist flutamide increased cytokine responses in male mice with trauma and sepsis and improved survival.-treatment with the estrogen receptor-beta agonist way-202196 improved survival preserved intestinal epithelial integrity and significantly reduced systemic bacteremia and peritoneal interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor levels in the same model and provided a comparable level of protection in both male and female animalstaken together these studies indicate that although estrogen may protect primarily by enhancing neutrophil priming and bacter- icidal activity and indirectly through stimulation of antibody responses other estrogen-stimulated mechanisms could also be operative.also has more severe effects on males than females similar to other body sites and consistent with the findings in the present study.

epidemiology and recent trends of severe sepsis in spain a nationwide population-based analysis 2006-2011. bmc infect dis 2014 14 3863.kisat m villegas cv onguti s et al.

taken together these findings suggest the induction of a more predominant anti-inflammatory periapical environment in males vs females.effect of estrogen on infection disseminationthe increased susceptibility of males vs females to infection dissemi- nation following il-1 blockade suggested that sex-related factors in particular estrogen could be responsible for this difference.

ovx females were further separated into two groups one of which received a slow release estrogen implant subcutaneously that provided estrogen over 21 days and the other without supplementation.

however estrogen alone also increased production of both il-1a and il-1b in a dose-dependent manner even at very low concentrations 0.01 mgml - 1. when cells were stimulated with the combination of lps and estrogen an additive rather than a synergistic response was observed.

these data suggest that females by the virtue of their estrogen production may be relatively resistant to dentoalveolar infection dissemination because they produce higher constitutive levels of il-1 resulting in greater neutrophil priming than males.2520151050shamshamovxovxovxovxe20.250.20.150.10.050shamshamovxovxovxovxe2anti-il-1abe2anti-il-1ab anti-il-1abanti-il-1abe2anti-il-1ab anti-il-1abfigure 5 effect of anti-il-1ab antibodies and estrogen modulation on body weight and splenomegaly.

international journal of oral science 2017 9 16-23openoriginal articleinterleukin-1 and estrogen protect against disseminating dentoalveolar infectionshesham youssef and philip stashenkodentoalveolar bacterial infections cause localized tissue and bone destruction but usually remain well-localized within teeth in immunocompetent hosts.

e2 estrogen il interleukin.discussionspreading dentoalveolar infections constitute a significant and growing public health problem and in severe cases are life-threatening.

infect immun 2000 68 10 5645-5651.kawashima n niederman r hynes ro et al.

immunology 1999 971 117-123.stashenko p wang cy riley e et al.

j dent res 1995 741 323-330.stashenko p goncalves rb lipkin b et al.

