it consists of three main functional components the microbiota that colonize the intestines the epithelium with its specialized mucus-producing cells and cells producing antimicrobial peptides and gut-associated lymphoid tissue composed of various immune cells including iels which come in direct contact with gut luminal antigens and lamina propria cells producing secretory iga figure 1.this review summarizes the role of epithelial cells and their intercellular junctions as well as iels and the gut microbiota in the activation of early processes leading to the pathomechanisms associated with cd.epithelial junctions - structures responsible for gut permeabilitythe small intestinal epithelium is organized into a monolayer of specialized cells enterocytes constituting approximately 80 goblet cells secreting mucus paneth cells synthesizing defensins and other antimicrobial agents endocrine cells secreting hormones and intestinal stem cells responsible for epithelial cell homeostasis and regeneration1314.

the aim of this paper was to review the current literature and summarize the role of the gut microbiota epithelial cells and their intercellular junctions and iels in cd development.key words celiac disease intestinal microbiota epithelium intraepithelial lymphocytes intestinal barrierc the authors 2017. published by baishideng publishing group inc. all rights reserved.t-cell responses lead to local tissue damage3.

il-15 plays a key role in enhanced cytolytic activity of iels via increasing the expression of both intestinal epithelial cell surface ligands such as mica and micb i.e.cukrowska b sowinska a bierla jb czarnowska e rybak a grzybowska-chlebowczyk u. intestinal epithelium intraepithelial lymphocytes and the gut microbiota - key players in the pathogenesis of celiac disease.

indoles produced from tryptophan by various gram-positive and gram- negative intestinal bacteria and acetate produced by bifidobacterium strains enhance epithelial defense functions and suppress intestinal inflammation77-79.

an increased activity and expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase in human duodenal enterocytes has been reported in cd patients97.thus dysbiosis which can follow viral or bacterial infections or antibiotic therapy may activate innate immunity leading to pro-inflammatory changes with the resulting iel infiltration epithelial barrier disruption and increased transfer of immunogenic gluten peptides which in turn activate inflammation leading to cd development figure 3.role of iels in epithelial barrier homeostasisthe typical histopathological presentation of cd is small intestinal enteropathy characterized by an increase in iels crypt hyperplasia and villous atrophy.

epithelial cells form a continuous layer thanks to being sealed together by intercellular junctions including tight junctions tjs adherens junctions ajs desmosomes and gap junctions15.the ultrastructure of epithelial junctions is presented in figure 2. tjs and ajs are supported by a dense perijunctional ring of actin and myosin and they form the apical junctional complex and regulate epithelial paracellular permeability1617.

the intestinal barrier is a complex functional structure whose functioning is dependent on intestinal microbiotacukrowska b et al .

that is why it has been hypothesized that an early disruption of the gut barrier in genetically susceptible individuals which is not associated with gluten peptides and results in an increased intestinal permeability could precede the onset of gluten-induced immune events.the intestinal barrier is a complex structure that separates the internal milieu from the luminal environment12.

individuals with a positive antibody test but no evidence of intestinal damage were similar indicating that cd-related dysmetabolismdysbiosis precedes the intestinal damage93.only a few serum metabolites can help differentiate between potential and overt cd none of these metabolites are related to energy metabolism.

before activating the immune system gluten peptides are transferred by the epithelial barrier to the mucosal lamina propria where they are deamidated by intestinal tissue tran- sglutaminase 2. as a result they strongly bind to human leucocyte antigens hlas especially hla-dq2 and hla-dq8 expressed on antigen-presenting cells.

finally il-15 activation leads to innate cytotoxic disruption of epithelial cells resulting in increased intestinal permeability to different luminal macromolecules in- cluding immunogenic gluten peptides6.although gluten is the main external trigger of cd gluten ingestion does not fully explain cd pathogenesis.

some studies suggested that gliadin by binding to the proinflammatory chemokine cxcr3 receptor on the intestinal epithelium initiates the release of zonulin which induces cytoskeleton rearrangement zo-1 and occludin down-regulation leading to disruption of tj integrity and finally to an increase in epithelial permeability3855.

alterations in tlr4 and tlr2 expression as well as functional single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the genes expressed upon tlr4 activation have also been associated with cd457172.interestingly epithelial barrier function may be controlled indirectly by the intestinal metabolome e.g.

these scfas are the main metabolites produced by gut- colonizing bacteria and a major source of energy for intestinal epithelial cells74.

scfas serve as specific activators of orphan g-protein-coupled receptors such as gpr43 and gpr41 predominantly expressed in intestinal epithelial cells7576.

