If all E. coli strains produce at least one siderophore that is enterobactin the analysis of the repertoire of siderophores displayed by E. coli reference strains revealed that B2 strains cluster the high- est number of distinct siderophores Fig.

We showed that the PPTase committed to the synthesis of yersiniabactin in E. coli was EntD 27.Structure of the siderophores synthesized by E. coli according to 26.IUBMB LIFE45.

Moreover inactivation of one two three or four siderophores results in highly differential global metabolomics responsesInterplay Between Siderophores and Colibactin Genotoxin Biosynthetic Pathways in E. coliA number of E. coli strains from phylogenetic group B2 display also the pks island which codes for the production of colibac- tin a PK-NRP genotoxin 45 that belongs to the same family of chemical compound as enterobactin salmochelins and yer- siniabactin.

There is an increased prevalence of these E. coli strains over the last 30 years in the intestinal microbiota in industrialized countries.

Integrating the regula- tion of fitnessvirulence factors such as siderophores colibac- tin and siderophore-microcins into networks that respond to specific environmental signals such as the local iron concen- tration could result in an accurate production of specificfitnessvirulence factors so that the E. coli can adapt to the competitive environment that is the gut andor the blood.

The long-term consequences and risks associated with high iron supply in the light of this iron-dependent network described in this review could explain at least in part the increased prevalence of E. coli B2 in the gut of people in industrialized countries.

VC 2017 IUBMB Life 696435-441 2017Keywords pathogenesis commensalism iron E. coliBattle for Iron Between Host and MicrobesEukaryotic cells and most prokaryotic organisms require iron to maintain essential biological functions e.g.

Uropathogenic E. coli UPEC represses hepci- din the master regulator of host iron homeostasis to evadeIUBMB LIFEA schematic view of iron uptake systems evolved by Gram-negative bacteria.

On the other hand pyoverdine the high affinity siderophore is needed to cause acute infections 14.Siderophores in E. coli Repertoire and RegulationE.

Although usually a commensal E. coli can also be a pathogen associated with diarrheal diseases and extraintesti- nal infections 1718.

