the succession of v. anguillarum infection was evidenced by increased expression of immune genes and bacterial loads in ayu tissues which in turn altered the composition and predicted functions of gut bacterial community.

s1 the logarithm of the bacterial number 6.2 5.9 and 5.2 also known as bacterial load in liver was more than 105 cfu from 24 hpbc to 72 hpbc.

thus the ayu gut bacterial assemblages were relatively stable at the coarse phylum level in response to infection.responses of the gut bacterial community duringv.

notably the gutbacterial communities were significantly associated with the expression levels of tnf-a mantel test r 14 0.304 p 14 0.019 and il- 1 b r 14 0.363 p 14 0.013.identification of sensitive bacterial taxa for characterizing infectiongiven that gut bacterial communities were altered by sampling time and infection we determined whether sensitive taxa responded to infection in a similar pattern over sampling time.fig.

this study investigated the gut bacterial communities and immune responses of ayu plecoglossus altivelis upon exposure to vibrio anguillarum.

the dynamics of gut bacterial diversity and evenness were temporally stable in control ayu but were reduced in infected subjects particularly at the late stages of infection.

variations in the gut microbiota were significantly associated with the expression levels oftnf-a p 14 0.019 and il-1 b p 14 0.013. the profiles of certain gut bacterial taxa were indicative ofv.

compared with healthy controls the ayu infected with v. anguillarum possessed less complex fewer connected and lower cooperative gut bacterial interspecies interaction coinciding with significant shifts in keystone species.

these findings imply that v. anguillarum infection substan- tially disrupted the compositions and interspecies interaction of ayu gut bacterial community thereby altering gut microbial-mediated functions and inducing host immune responses.

in the present study we tracked the dynamics of ayu gut bacterial assembly in response to pathogen infection under a spe- cific time course.

the fish were fed regularly as previously described and subjected to a two-week accli- matization before bacterial challenge.

all experiments were con-ducted according to the experimental animal management law of china and approved by the animal ethics committee of ningbo university.vibrio anguillarum strain ayu-h080701 was grown in lur- iaebertani medium placed in a shaking incubator at 28 oc and 180 rpm for 12 h. bacterial concentration was determined by using the standard plate count method.

fish from the 10 remaining tanks were used as control without bacterial challenge.tissue collection and genomic dna gdna extractionone fish from each treatment infection or control was sacri- ficed for tissue sampling at 0 24 48 and 72 h. both intestines and liver were collected.

the gdna extracts were quan- tified by a nanodrop 2000 spectrophotometer thermo scientific usa and stored at -80 oc for bacterial 16s rdna amplification.real-time quantitative pcr rt-qpcrbacterial load in the liver of the infected ayu was determined by rt-qpcr to confirm the efficiency of v. anguillarum infection.

total rnas of both pure bacterial cultures and ayu liver were extracted as previously described .

