The IAP-KO rat had an increase in intestinal permeability IAP-KOClass ErysipelotrichiaFamily ErysipelotrichaceaePhylum Proteobacteria Class DeltaproteobacteriaOrder Desulfovibrionales Family DesulfovibrionaceaeGenus Desulfovibrio0.740.0003The differences are presented as log difference IAP-KO minus WT.mesenteric lymph nodesWe then sought to investigate whether abnormal bacterial colonization and the associated increased intestinal inflam- mation and permeability in IAP-deficient rats lead to increased bacterial translocation.

The bacterial popula- tion of the TI followed similar patterns as the colon with Firmicutes constituting 30 of the bacterial population in both IAP-KO and WT rats followed by Bacteroidetes 17 and Proteobacteria 15.Despite the lack of difference at the level of the phyla there were significant changes at the genus level and is listed in .

Intestinal permeability was quantified by fluorescein isothiocyanateedextran permeability and bacterial translocation by qRT-PCR for bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA in mesenteric lymph nodes.

IAP-KO also had significantly increased bacterial translocation to mesenteric lymph nodes occurred in IAP-KO IAP-KO 7625 RFUg - 3469 WT 4957 RFUg - 1552 P 14 0.04.Furthermore IAP-KO had increased permeability IAP-KO 0.297 mgmL - 0.2 WT0.189 mgmL - 0.15 P 14 0.07 but was not statistically significant.Conclusions Deficiency of IAP in the newborn intestine is associated with dysbiosis and increased inflammation permeability and bacterial translocation.a 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

To our knowledge this is the first study to examine the role of IAP plays in bacterial colonization in the newborneinfant period.Although the congenital absence of IAP did not result in overt illness it did result in a low-grade intestinal infla- mmation a shift in the acquired microbiome favoring oppor- tunistic pathogens and increased bacterial translocation.

The microbiotas of terminal ileum TI and colon was determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction qRT-PCR of subphylum- specific bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA.

The results show that in the colon Firmicutes constitute 25 of the bacterial population in both IAP-KO and WT rats followed by Bacter- oidetes 20 and Proteobacteria 15.

The mucosa-adherent bacterial population may be more beneficial in nutrient exchange and induction of innate immunity.

  eIntestinal alkaline phosphatase deficiency leads to dysbiosis and bacterial translocation in the newborn intestineJason Fawley MDShannon Koehler MD PhDSusan Cabrera MD Vy Lam PhDKatherine FredrichMartin Hessner PhDNita Salzman PhDand David Gourlay MDa Department of Surgery Medical College of Wisconsin Milwaukee Wisconsinb Department of Pediatrics Children's Hospital of Wisconsin Milwaukee Wisconsinc Department of Surgery Children's Hospital of Wisconsin Milwaukee Wisconsina r t i c l e i n f o Article historyReceived 4 December 2016 Received in revised form 24 March 2017Accepted 29 March 2017Available online 13 April 2017KeywordsNEC IAPDysbiosis Newborna b s t r a c tBackground Intestinal alkaline phosphatase IAP has been shown to help maintain intes- tinal homeostasis.

Decreased expression of IAP has been linked with pediatric intestinal diseases associated with bacterial overgrowth and subsequent inflammation.

