7a-dehydroxylation or removal of an hydroxyl OH group at the C7 position is critical for secondary bile acid formation and leads to the generation of deoxycholic acid DCA from cholic acid CA while chenodeoxycholic acid CDCA is con- verted to lithocholic acid LCA  .In the hepatocyte secondary bile acids may have different fates DCA and LCA may be conjugated to glycine or taurine and allowed to circulate with other conjugated primary bile acids otherwise LCA can be altered by CYP3A4 to generate hyodeoxycholic acid HDCA .

As the gut microbiota plays such a central role in bile acid metabolism any perturbation of the microbiota has the potential to disrupt bile acid homeostasis and impact host physiological processes see below.Microbial bile acid deconjugation through bile salt hydrolase activityBacterial bile salt hydrolase BSH enzymesBile salt hydrolases BSH E.C.3.5.1.24 are microbial enzymes which belong to the Ntn-hydrolase superfamily of proteins.

This is due to the fact that the activity of these bacterial enzymes can significantly alter the signalling properties of the bile acid pool with consequences for interaction with cellular bile acid receptors  .Transport of free primary bile acids into the bacterial cell is the first step in the process and it is mediated by the proton-dependent bile acid transporter BaiG.

The host enzymes that contribute to bile acid synthesis in the liver and the regulatory pathways that influence the composition of the total bile acid pool in the host have been well estab- lished.

The host enzymes involved in bile acid synthesis have been well characterised and there is significant information available concerning the pathways that are central to bile acid synthesis .

Without a microbial contribution to bile acid metabolism the host bile acid signature is perturbed with resultant impacts upon a range of host physiological processes .

The basic microbial enzymes that contribute to bile acid metabolism include bile salt hydrolase BSH and bile acid dehydratase enzymes that generate unconjugated and secondary and tertiary bile acids see .A major function of bile acids is to facilitate the emulsification of dietary fats and to aid intestinal absorption of lipids and lipophilic vitamins .

Host and microbial bile acid metabolism Synthesis from cholesterol in the liver by host Cytochrome P450 enzymes boxed through the classical and alternative bile acid synthetic pathways.

This implies that subtle variations to the local or systemic bile acid signature may alter the signalling properties of the bile acid pool with a resultant physiological impact upon the host.

This is most likely to occur in disease states where alterations of the gut microbiota are exaggerated.In the current review we examine the role of specific microbial enzymes upon bile acid metabolism in the host and outline how perturbations to the microbiota may influence systemic bile acid profiles with an emphasis upon disease states.

