to test this we mixed the tetracycline tet-resistant acinetobacter dhcp with the spect- resistant wt acinetobacter and co-cultured them in a '3-strain' spot along with e. coli seeding aci- netobacter at total od  5 and e. coli at od  1. survival of e. coli in the three-strain culture was reduced by about 104-fold fourth bar p0001 although their survival was improved rel- ative to e. coli mixed with only wt acinetobacter where e. coli were reduced below the 10 cfus limit of detection p 14 0011 presumably due to the lower fraction of killing cells in the three-strain culture.consistent with the model killing of e. coli by wt acinetobacter in three-strain cultures was sufficient to increase hgt to co-cultured acinetobacter dhcp by about 100-fold  compare two- to three-strain com- munities in right bar group p0001 while hgt to the wt remained unchanged relative to a two-strain community  left bar group p 14 068. we found similar results for a time course experiment comparing hgt in two-strain  and three-strain  commu- nities co-culture with wt acinetobacter dramat-ically increased hgt from e. coli to non-killing acinetobaceter dhcp.

the reduced efficacy of competing dna in this condition is likely because the high initial killing rate releases a large amount of prey dna at once overcoming com- petitive inhibition.interestingly competing dna was nearly 10-fold less effective than predicted which may reflect its physical exclusion from dense microbial communities or the fact that our model does not reflect the spatial heterogeneity of dna released from lysing e. coli.

acinetobacter takes up dnawith maximal rate c and saturation constant kdna this dna transforms acinetobacter from species a1 to a2 with efficiency e acinetobacter kills e. coli thereby releasing dna and e. coli leaks dna at a basal level rleak.

we measured plasmids per e. coli cell by growing a shaking tube of cells to exponential phase counting cell density by spotting serial dilutions isolating plasmid dna with a standard miniprep kit measuring obtained dna density with a spectrophotometer and converting ng of dna to plasmids per cell.

presumably the residual hgt to acinetobacter dhcp results from slow but con- tinued spontaneous dna release from e. coli possibly from spontaneous cell lysis.together these results and those reported for vibrio cholera  support a model in which the t6ss of acinetobacter promotes hgt by killing neighboring e. coli which then releases its dna for subsequent uptake by acinetobacter.

a more useful approach would be to quantify transformation using variables intrinsic to the cells and the dna such as the dna uptake rate and transformation efficiency per molecule of dna.

interestingly dna uptake and transformation parameters fit using purified plasmid dna accurately predicted hgt by dna released in situ.

dna degradation began to reduce hgt when dna half life was less than 2-3 min  which is just longer than the half life of free dna in saliva about 1 min .

competing dna began to reduce hgt at about 109 kb or greater  and given that our agar spots could support 107-108 cells that would be 10-100 kb of extracellular dna per cell at carrying capacity.importantly dnase was predicted to be more effective than competing dna at high cell seeding densities which is the condition where contact-dependent killing-enhanced hgt is most efficient.

we simulated surfaces seeded with varying numbers of e. coli mixed with either killing or non-killing acinetobacter either with dna half life fixed to 1 min  or with 1011 kb of competing dna added at time 0 .

similarly killing pro- vides less hgt enhancement when the interac- tion time is longer because killing acinetobacter deplete their donor dna source by killing neigh- boring prey e. coli whereas the non-killing mutants have a slower but exponentially grow- ing source of dna from spontaneously lysing e. coli.interestingly this seeding ratio at which con- tact-dependent killing most enhances hgt - when the predator outnumbers the prey - is the same condition in which it provides the strongestcompetitive advantage in terms of cell growth .

we placed the cm resistance gene in a region of the e. coli genome with minimal homol- ogy to acinetobacter to preclude its horizontal transfer enabling us to quantify the remaining e. coli and thereby measure killing efficiency.we co-cultured acinetobacter spect and e. coli cmkan seeded together at roughly equal concentrations on agar plates at 30oc overnight to allow for t6ss-mediated killing and hgt.

for example dna lost its transforming ability with a half life of around 1 hr in soil  and 1 min in saliva  and ingested dna was unable to transform even highly competenta.

hgt parameters fit using naked dna predict transfer of genes released via neighbor killing surprisingly well suggesting dna released from cell lysis in situ is readily available for uptake.

these mcherry gfp  cells push their mcherrygfp- parents out of the trap and kill neighboring e. coli.7e these results support a model in which the t6ss releases dna into the extracellular envi-ronment via lysis of neighboring cells thereby making it available for uptake by any nearby cell but the t6ss is not directly involved in dna uptake .to further characterize killing-enhanced hgt in acinetobacter we analyzed the effect of genetic context.

