thus mechanismspathways underlying observed biological effects of 6s remain unclear.metabolism of 6s in mice showed that 6s and its metabolites phase i metabolites and thiol conjugates were excreted into urine mainly in a glucuronidated form while being present in fecal samples in free forms.we therefore hypothesized that the gut microbiota may play an important role in the metabolism of 6s converting inactive glucuronated 6s and its metabolites to bioactive free molecules leading to exposure of colon tissues to a relatively high concentration of bioactive molecules including 6s and its phase i metabolites as well as its thiol conjugates.

part of glucuronidated conjugates is released into the gut through the enterohepatic circulation and then subjected to the deconjugation process by the microbial b-glucuronidase to release bioactive free form molecules which may be further metabolized by gut microbiota as well.two different bacterial b-glucuronidase genes have been described from the human gut microbiota the gus gene and the bg gene.-both genes were quite well representedfigure 6. representative hplc-ecd chromatograms of 6-shogaol and its metabolites only major metabolites were labeled in intestinal content samples collected from the proximal a middle b and distal segments c of the small intestine and content sample collected from the colon d. m1 5-cysteinyl-m6 m2 5-cysteinyl-6-shogaol m3 5-cysteinylglycinyl-m6 m4 5-n-acetylcysteinyl-m6 m5 5-n-acetylcysteinyl-6- shogaol m6 1-4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxyphenyl-4-decen-3-ol m7 5-methoxy-1-4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxyphenyl-decan-3-one m8 3'4'-dihydrox- yphenyl-decan-3-one m9 1-4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxyphenyl-decan-3-ol m10 5-methylthio-1-4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxyphenyl-decan-3-one m11 1-4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxyphenyl-decan-3-one m12 5-methylthio-1-4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxyphenyl-decan-3-ol.in firmicutes from the human gut.it is a topic of future studies to identify the bacterial strains that are responsible for metabolizing the glucuronidated metabolites of 6s and its phase i and thiol-conjugated metabolites.metabolite profiles of 6s and its metabolites in the mouse intestinal tract.

our laboratory has previously established that 6s was extensively metabolized to its phase i metabolites such as 1-4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxyphenyl-4-decen-3-ol m6 5- methoxy-1-4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxyphenyl-decan-3-one m7metabolites including 5-cysteinyl-m6 m1 5-cysteinyl-6- shogaol m2 5-cysteinylglycinyl-m6 m3 5-n-acetylcystein- yl-m6 m4 and 5-n-acetylcysteinyl-6-shogaol m5.- we have also proved that the phase i and thiol conjugated metabolites of 6s remain bioactive and in the blood circulation most of them were transported in their glucuronidated forms.-we recently further revealed that the glucuronida- tion of 6s can largely eliminate its bioactivities.

b-figure 1. chemical structures of 6-shogaol and its major microbial metabolites m9 and m11 a representative high-performance liquid chromatography-electrochemical detection hplc-ecd chromato- grams of authentic 6-shogaol m9 and m11 and microbial metabolites of 6-shogaol after incubation with human fecal bacteria collected from subject-1 b.glucuronidase from limpets patella vulgata was purchased from sigma st. louis usa.

6s was incubated with fecal slurries to yield microbial metabolites which were analyzed by hplc-ecd and lc-ms. shows the representative hplc-ecd chromatograms for 6s and its microbial metabolites obtained from subject-1.

these two peaks were identified as 1-4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxyphenyl- decan-3-ol m9 and 1-4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxyphenyl-decan- 3-one m11 by comparing their retention times and tandem mass data with those of the authentic standards of which the molecular weight of m11 at mz 279 m  h is 2 da higher than that of 6s whereas m9 with molecular ion at mz 281 m h is a ketone group-reduced product of m11 demonstrating that reductions of the double bond c c and the ketone group are the major metabolic pathways of 6sfigure 3. representative hplc-ecd chromatograms of microbial metabolites of m11 after incubation with human fecal bacteria collected from subjects 3 and 6 a and b.figure 4. representative hplc-uv chromatograms of glucuronidated 6-shogaol 6s-g and its metabolites in in vitro incubations with human fecal slurry a or b-glucuronidase b or without b-glucuronidase and human fecal slurry c and the proposed pathway for the conversion of glucuronidated 6-shogaol to 6-shogaol.by microbiota.

we have previously reported m9 and m11 as the metabolites of 6s in liver microsomes.to the best of our knowledge this is the first report of m9 and m11 as the microbial-derived metabolites of 6s.

the presence of 6s and its metabolites m1-m12 were confirmed by comparing their respective retention times and tandem mass data with those of the authentic standards as described previously.-the profiles of metabolites were also similar to that from 6s-treated mouse fecal samples suggesting a b- glucuronidase-like activity of the gut microbiota.

studies have revealed that ginger phytochemicals upon oral administration underwent enter- ohepatic recirculation in mice.we hypothesize that in the gastrointestinal tract especially in the colon the glucuronidated forms of 6s and its metabolites phase i and thiol-conjugatedmetabolites can be deconjugated andor further metabolized by gut microbiota.to test this hypothesis the metabolic fates of 6s and its metabolites in the mouse intestinal tract were studied.

and two major metabolites m9 and m11 were identified as the microbial-derived metabolites.

we also demonstrated that the glucuronides of 6s and its metabolites could be rapidly deconjugated by human gut microbiota and in mouse gastrointestinal track releasing bioactive free forms of 6s and its metabolites.

to verify this hypothesis we investigated the metabolism of 6s and the glucuronidated metabolites of 6s and its phase i and thiol conjugates in in vitro batch fecalfermentation and in mice.

we demonstrated for the first time that gut microbiota played an important role in metabolism of6s and also accounted for conversion of inactive glucur- onidated 6s and its metabolites into bioactive free molecules.

the mobile phase a consisted of 30 mm sodium phosphate buffer containing 1.75 acetonitrile and 0.125 tetrahydrofuran ph 3.35 and mobile phase b consisted of 15 mm sodium phosphate buffer containing 58.5 acetonitrile and 12.5 tetrahydrofuran ph 3.45. it is important to note that glucuronidated 6s and its metabolites without free phenolic hydroxyl group in structures will not exhibit ecd response.

the flow rate was set at 1.0 mlmin and the injection volumefigure 2. representative hplc-ecd chromatograms of microbial metabolites of 6-shogaol after incubation with human fecal bacteria collected from subjects 1-6 a-f.of each sample was 10 ml.

