PCA results of bacterial community diversity.Effects of bioenergy cropping changes on the rhizosphere bacterial community in cadmium-contaminated soilTo investigate the effects of bioenergy cropping changes on the rhizosphere bacterial community the LEfSe was used to identify dif- ferentially abundant taxons between bioenergy-planted samples and unplanted controls grown in 50 mg kg-1 cadmium-contaminated soils.

For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend the reader is referred to the web version of this article.MiSeq-pyrosequencing reveals rhizosphere bacterial community compositionAs approximately 99 of microorganisms have never been re- covered by standard cultivation techniques cultivation-independent techniques are necessary for bacterial community composition analysis.

For example using a DGGE analysis of rapeseed rhizosphere bacterial communities in the remediation of cadmium-contaminated soil identified seven bacterial phyla.

Integrated metagenomics and molecular ecological network analysis of bacterial community composition during the phytoremediation of cadmium- contaminated soils by bioenergy cropsZhaojin Chen Yuan Zheng Chuanyu Ding Xuemin Ren Jian Yuan Feng SunYuying Lia Key Laboratory of Ecological Security for Water Source Region of Mid-line Project of South-to-North Diversion Project of Henan Province College of Agricultural Engineering Nanyang Normal University Nanyang 473061 People's Republic of Chinab Henan Collaborative Innovation Center of Water Security for Water Source Region of Mid-line Project of South-to-North Diversion Project Nanyang 473061 People'sRepublic of ChinaA R T I C L E I N F O KeywordsBacterial community structure CadmiumPhytoremediation Bioenergy crops MiSeq sequencingMolecular ecological network analysisA B S T R A C T Two energy crops maize and soybean were used in the remediation of cadmium-contaminated soils.

The rhizosphere bacterial community composition was studied by MiSeq sequencing.

Based on principal component analysis PCA and unweighted pair group with arithmetic mean UPGMA analysis we found that the bacterial com- munity was influenced by cadmium addition and bioenergy cropping.

Three molecular ecological networks were constructed for the unplanted soybean- and maize-planted bacterial communities grown in 50 mg kg-1 cad- mium-contaminated soils.

Understanding these interactions is a central theme in microbial ecology  Corresponding author at Key Laboratory of Ecological Security for Water Source Region of Mid-line Project of South-to-North Diversion Project of Henan Province College of Agricultural Engineering Nanyang Normal University Nanyang 473061 People's Republic of China.E-mail address Z. Chen.Received 31 March 2017 Received in revised form 6 July 2017 Accepted 10 July 20170147-6513c2017ElsevierInc.Allrightsreserved.. For example examined the rhizosphere bacterial communities associated with copper-con- taminated soils of the important biofuel crop maize Zea mays using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis.

The results showed that EVO injections trig- gered bacterial competition.

TheBCF cadmium concentration in soilrhizosphere bacterial community composition was studied by MiSeq sequencing.

