cecal bacterial numbers were lower in most of the dietary groups and bacterial groups studied than fecal bacterial numbers at the beginning of the study 0 d feces vs cecum univ clept bfra ato bif lac for all dietary groups p  0.05. similarly the cecal bacterial numbers were also lower than the fecal bacterial numbers at the end of the study in most of the dietary groups and bacterial groups studied 15 d feces vs cecum univ clept bfra ato for all dietary groups p  0.05 .

however this study was designed to measure the metabolite and microbiota changes after ins supplementation and longer feeding studies would be required to reliably measure the changes in body weight and other metabolic parameters with ins and inscellulose mixtures.the bacterial numbers together with bacterial diversities were similar in all mice groups of our study at baseline and therefore the diet induced changes in the microbiota are comparable to each other.

bacterial community analyses were performed using six different bacterial denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge methods developed and validated by vtt technical research centre of finland to assess the diversity and temporal stability of the selected bacterial populations by fecal bacterial community fingerprints.

2014 102 772-779.cox l. m. cho i. young s. a. anderson w. h. waters b. j. hung s. c. gao z. mahana d. bihan m. alekseyenko a. v. methe b. a. blaser m. j. the nonfermentable dietary fiber hydroxypropyl methylcellulose modulates intestinal microbiota.

however the bioavailability in themammalian body is not known.the aim of our study was to elucidate whether a lignin-rich fraction isolated from bsg is metabolized by the mice gut microbiota and assess its bioavailability to the animals and the effects on the mice gut microbiota.

2004 134 120-127.aura a. m. niemi p. mattila i. niemela k. smeds a. tamminen t. faulds c. buchert j. poutanen k. release of small phenolic compounds from brewer's spent grain and its lignin fractions by human intestinal microbiota in vitro.

cecal bacterial numbers were lower than fecal bacterial numbers at the beginning of the study and after the dietary intervention in most of the bacterial groups studied as has previously been shown for bacteroides spp.

m. marmon s. neimann a. brusca s. patel t. manasson j. pamer e. g. littman d. r. abramson s. b. decreased bacterial diversity characterizes the altered gut microbiota in patients with psoriatic arthritis resembling dysbiosis in inflammatory bowel disease.

after acclimatization the mice were weighed and randomized into three diet groups n  8 mice in each in which 40 of their diet contained either ins orcellulose or their mixture a ins b cellulose c ins and cellulose 32. the mice remained on their assigned diet for 15 days.

2013 61 9744-9753.niemi p. aura a. m. maukonen j. smeds a. i. mattila i. niemela k. tamminen t. faulds c. b. buchert j. poutanen k. interactions of a lignin-rich fraction from brewer's spent grain with gut microbiota in vitro.

2013 143 417-423.matto j. maunuksela l. kajander k. palva a. korpela r.kassinen a. saarela m. composition and temporal stability of gastrointestinal microbiota in irritable bowel syndrome - a longitudinal study in ibs and control subjects.

interindividual similarity of human gut microbiota has been shown to vary greatly between individualsand even though there is less inter-individual variation in the mouse gut microbiota there were still clear inter-individual differencesbetween different mice.

it is possible that the mice received lignin from other sources in the control diet since all diets originating from cereal grains contain small amounts of lignin.

rep. 2015 5 10604.ohra-aho t. niemi p. aura a. m. orlandi m. poutanen k. buchert j. tamminen t. structure of brewer's spent grain lignin and its interactions with gut microbiota in vitro.

partial degradation of lignin has been demonstrated in the rumen of goatsand lignin has been shown to be a precursor of the mammalian lignans enterodiol and enterolactone in rats suggesting that nonruminants could also be able to degrade lignin to a limited extent.

