the microbiota-for-age z score maz was calculated as followsmaz 5 microbiota age 2 median microbiota age of healthy shrimp of same chronologic agesd of microbiota age of healthy shrimp of the same chronologic age where median and sd of microbiota age were computed for each sampling date subramanian et al.

2016. however the snapshot data warrant a time-series design especially including disease initiation that validates this ecological pattern over a disease progression.an ultimate goal of microbial ecology projects is topredict and add host health status based on the gut microbiota assembly costello et al.

here we established two methods maz and disease-discriminatory taxa of the gut microbiota to diagnose disease initiation and disease severity respec- tively.

2012. iii tracking the temporal microbiota development patterns during disease progression could provide novel insights into disease etiol- ogy which in turn guides intervention strategy mallon et al.

2016. intriguingly the gut microbiota immaturi- ty is sensitive to disease initiation whereas the profile of disease-discriminatory taxa could quantitatively diagnose shrimp health status and disease severity.

in addition maz was significantly pearson's r 5 0.877 p  0.001 correlated with sod levels suggesting that maz are indicative for disease severity.predictive modeling of shrimp disease using gut microbiotato construct a shrimp disease diagnosis model the 30 age-discriminatory taxa fig.

environmental microbiology 2017 194 1490-1501doi10.11111462-2920.13701integrating gut microbiota immaturity and disease- discriminatory taxa to diagnose the initiation and severity of shrimp diseasejinbo xiong12 jinyong zhu1 wenfang dai12 chunming dong3 qiongfen qiu1 and chenghua li121school of marine sciences ningbo university ningbo 315211 china.2collaborative innovation center for zhejiang marine high-efficiency and healthy aquaculture ningbo 315211 china.3key laboratory of marine biogenetic resources third institute of oceanography state of oceanic administration xiamen 361006 china.summaryincreasing evidence has emerged a tight link among the gut microbiota host age and health status.

2014. consistently a recent study has defined relative microbiota maturity by incorporating gut age-discriminatory taxa and found that relative microbiota immaturity is positively associated with the severity of malnutrition subramanian et al.

2.to rule out the possible effects of shrimp age on the gut microbiota assembly we quantified the relative contribu- tions of major ecological processes that structure the gut microbiota for each day between health status fig.

additionally we offered a framework to explain the observed patterns and provided the first evidence reveal- ing that the distinct ecological configurations of gut microbiota were linked with the severity of host disease.the healthy shrimp exhibit predictable changes b diver- sity in the gut microbiota over lifetime whereas no clear temporal pattern was detected for a diversity.

2015. although this hypothesis is consistent with our data follow-upstudies are warranted to determine how an altered gut microbiota assembly services the host.given the high temporal variability of gut microbiota over host age stephens et al.

6. schematic representation of how ecological processes govern the assembly in the shrimp gut microbiota.host filtering exerts a strong selection on the gut microbiota thus parallel changes in host maturity and gut physiology resulting in a predictable gut microbiota over development stages of healthy individuals.

here we firstly tracked shrimp gut microbiota n 5 118 over an entire cycle of culture shrimp either stayed healthy or progres- sively transitioned into severe disease.

the results showed that the gut microbiota were significantly dis- tinct over shrimp developmental stages and disease progression.

the predicted gut microbiota age using the profiles of age- discriminatory bacterial species as independent vari- ables fitted well r 5 0.996 p  0.001 with the age of healthy subjects while this defined trend was dis- rupted by disease.

