we here addressed whether mice harboring a human intestinal microbiota developed intestinal extra-intestinal and systemic sequelae upon ileitis induction.methodologyprincipal findingssecondary abiotic mice were generated by broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment and associ- ated with a complex human intestinal microbiota following peroral fecal microbiota trans- plantation.

ileitis development has been shown to be highly microbiota dependent  given that secondary abiotic mice with a virtually depleted intestinal microbiota were unaffected following t. gondii infection whereas upon reconstitution with the murine intestinal microbiota mice were suffering from overt disease .

overall the high dose t. gondii infection model resembles key features of inflammatory bowel diseases ibd in humans such as crohn's disease during the acute stage   .given the importance of the host specific intestinal microbiota in susceptibility towards dis- tinct immunopathological diseases their onset progression and outcome    we gener- ated with respect to their microbiota humanized mice in order to mimic human microbiota conditions for the investigations of the molecular mechanisms underlying pathogen-commen- sal bacterial-host interactions.

the average number of positively stained cells within at least six high power fields hpf 0.287 mm2 400 x magnification were determined by an indepen- dent and blinded investigator.cultural survey of the human donor suspension intestinal microbiota and bacterial translocationfor comprehensive quantitative survey of the microbiota composition in fecal human donor suspensions and intestinal i.e.

secondary abiotic mice were then reassociated with a complex human intestinal microbiota by fecal microbiota transplantation fmt that could stably establish within the murine host for at least six weeks .

in the present study we applied the human microbiota associated hma mouse model to unravel the triangle relationship between pathogen human intestinal microbiota ecology and host immunity in acute t. gondii induced ileitis.material and methodsethical statementall animal experiments were conducted according to the european guidelines for animal wel- fare 201063eu with approval of the commission for animal experiments headed by the landesamt fur gesundheit und soziales lageso berlin registration number g018412.animal welfare was monitored twice daily by assessment of clinical conditions and weight lossof mice.

experiments were repeated at least twice.resultsgeneration of human microbiota associated mice by fecal microbiota transplantationin the present study we investigated intestinal extra-intestinal and systemic sequelae of acutet.

subsequently mice with a virtually depleted intestinal microbiota were subjected to peroral transplantation of human microbiota generated from five healthy human individuals on three consecutive days.

within three weeks the human microbiota had stably established within the murine intestinal tract .microbiota shifts during acute ileitis of human microbiota associated micein order to induce ileitis hma mice were perorally infected with a high dose i.e.

hence acute ileitis is accompanied by pro- nounced shifts in the intestinal microbiota composition of hma mice.clinical macroscopic and microscopic sequelae in t. gondii infected human microbiota associated miceuntil day 7 following t. gondii infection hma were clinically severely compromised and exhib- ited wasting and bloody diarrhea in almost 90 of cases .

hence t. gondii infection of hma mice was accompanied by translocation of commensal bacteria from the inflamed small intestines to extra-intestinal compartments and resulted not only in intestinal but also extra-intestinal and systemic inflammatory immune responses.discussionin the present study we surveyed the suitability of with respect to the microbiota human- ized mice to study the interactions between pathogen human commensal microbiota and host immunity during acute t. gondii induced ileitis.

one needs to take into consideration however that it can not be distinguished whether amplified 16s rrna gene copies were derived form viable or dead bacterial cells.the here presented comprehensive survey of the intestinal microbiota in humanized mice was further supported by our previous studies where the human microbiota composition was stable in the murine gastrointestinal tract for at least six weeks following fmt  .

ileitis development was accompanied by substan- tial shifts in intestinal microbiota composition of hma mice characterized by elevated total bacterial loads and increased numbers of intestinal gram-negative commensals such as enterobacteria and bacteroides  prevotella species overgrowing the small and large intesti- nal lumen.

macroscopic sequelae of t. gondii infection were supportedintestinal microbiota composition in human microbiota associated mice suffering from acute ileitis.

importantly comparable microbiota shifts can also be observed in crohn's diseaseextra-intestinal cytokine responses in human microbiota associated mice suffering from acute ileitis.

