these differences were visualized by hierarchical cluster analysis figure 1a which demon- strated the global metabolic shifts in 16-week-old hla- b27b2m-transgenic animals in addition to more moder- ate changes in 6-week-old animals before disease.to further examine metabolic shifts driven by hla-b27 expression we also performed pathway enrichment analysis 15 to identify biochemical path- ways that were strongly influenced by hla-b27 expres- sion figures 1b and c. notably hla-b27 expression impacted metabolites involved in numerous biochemical pathways including those associated with amino acid carbohydrate lipid and xenobiotic metabolism.

b-d levels of mucus metabolites b dietary metabolites and inflammatory metabolites c and primary and secondary bile acid metabolites d in 16-week-old animals for findings in 6-week-old animals see supplementary figure 2 available on the arthritis  rheumatology web site at t. values are the mean 6 sem n 5 8 rats per group.

to establish the impact of hla-b27 expression on the intestinal metabolome we performed metabolomic profiling of cecal contents from hla-b27b2m-transgenic rats and wt controls at age 6 weeks and at age 16 weeks representing animals before disease and those with established disease respec- tively.

interestingly however while n- acetylmuramate and tyrosine were elevated at 6 weeks in hla-b27b2m-transgenic animals they were significantly decreased once disease was established at 16 weeks see supplementary figure 2.our subsequent analysis focused on the 16-weekdata set which had a large number of individual metabolites that were significantly impacted by hla- b27 expression see supplementary table 1 available at .

in light of the large number of metabolites detected in our screen of cecal contents and given our relatively restricted sample size n 5 8 animals per genotype per age group we were unable to identify any individual metabolites that exhibited differential abundance in 6-week-old animals that attained statistical significance when we adjusted stringently for multiple comparisons across the entire data set.

taken together the liberation of mucus components and the decrease in some plant-derived metabolites but with increased precursors may indicate markedly shifted metabolic function by theintestinal microbiota in hla-b27b2m-transgenic animals.we also found a number of metabolites indica- tive of an active inflammatory response that were signifi- cantly up-regulated in intestinal contents of hla-b27 b2m-transgenic animals.

for instance at 6 weeks before disease valerate was significantly increased in hla-b27b2m-transgenic animals versus controls although levels of valerate were significantly lower in hla-b27b2m-transgenic animals than in controls at the 16-week time point figure 3b.

these animals express multiple copies of human hla-b27 in association with the b2m heavy chain 4. hla-b27 is the gene with the strongest known genetic association with spa.

taken together these find- ings further indicate that hla-b27 expression broadly impacts the levels of microbially derived metabolites in the gut.association of hla-b27 expression with altered levels of mcfas and scfas.

in light of the benefi- cial effects of propionate on hla-b27-associated inflam- matory disease despite the observation that this specific metabolite was not depleted in unmanipulated hla- b27b2m-transgenic animals versus healthy controls fig- ure 3 we hypothesized that hla-b27 expression may alter host expression of scfa receptors instead and hence disrupt this homeostatic feedback loop.

of note hla-b27 misfolding triggers an unfolded protein response which may be up-regulated in the hla-b27b2m-transgenic rat and is intimately related to oxidative stress responses 2930.beyondaminoacidmetaboliteswealsoobserved altered levels of other biochemical classes even in animals before disease.

however after removal of low-abundance metabolites the lowest 20 we observed 5 metabolites that exhibited a significantly higher abundance in hla- b27b2m-transgenic animals than in wt controls figure 2a.

future studies that further address the impact of altered mucus metabolism on both host immunity and the intestinal microbiota would be highly interesting in the context of spa pathogenesis.strikingly we found that multiple metabolic pathways even before disease were impacted by hla- b27 expression and we found that a number of individ- ual metabolites were significantly up-regulated in hla- b27b2m-transgenic animals compared with controls at the 6-week time point.

10 october 2017 pp 1984-1995 doi 10.1002art.40183vc 2017 american college of rheumatologyintestinal metabolites are profoundly altered in the context of hla-b27 expression and functionally modulate disease in a rat model of spondyloarthritismark asquith1 sean davin1 patrick stauffer1 claire michell1 cathleen janowitz1 phoebe lin1 joe ensign-lewis2 jason m. kinchen3 dennis r. koop1 and james t. rosenbaum4objective.

a significantly altered cecal metabolites in 6-week-old animals before disease onset.

