in e. coli 20 of the 31 args that were found in both sam- ples exhibited higher levels of expression in the post- treatment sample while in e. faecium 18 out of 21 args showed higher expression post-hsct.although patient a07 was only treated with antibiotics until day 18  d arg expression was in general higher in the post-treatment sample both in the whole sample  b as well as in specific populations  c.genomic characterization of a blood culture e. coli isolate and comparison to git populations.

also in accord with those results most of the clusters were only found in the pretreatment sample representation of both samples within a single plot  c.given the potential role of opportunistic pathogens in agvhd we were specifically interested in 2 population-level reconstructed genomes that were found in both samples and whose genomes could be recovered with high completeness namely e. coli ande.

b histogram of the ratios of metatranscriptomic mt to metagenomic mg depths of coverage of args in the pretreatment and post-treatment samples and in the untreated rhms.c histograms of the ratios of mt to mg depths of coverage of args in population-level genomes of escher- ichia coli and of enterococcus faecium in pretreatment and post-treatment samples.

coli indicated that all the e. coli genomes from patient a07 the isolate and the genomes from the git mg were more closely related to each other than to the reference genomes supplementary fig.

in the genome of the e. coli isolate the same args as in the pre- and post-treatment git e. coli could be identified with 4 additional args compared with the post-treatment git e. coli.discussionshort-term structural changes in the gastrointestinal microbiome following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

these findings demonstrate the poten- tial fatal effects of dysbiosis-associated pathogen domi- nance of the git microbiome and subsequent systemic infections on allo-hsct patient survival.conclusionwe observed drastic changes in the composition of the gastrointestinal microbiome of patients after allo- hsct and supportive care driven mainly by a decrease in bacterial diversity but only limited changes in eu- karyotes and archaea.

five patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoma received flubucy fludarabine busulfan cyclophosphamide as conditioning treatment 6 acute myeloid leukemia aml patients received bucy busulfan cyclophosphamide 1 myeloma and 1 aml patient received treoflu treosulfan fludarabine 1 aml patient received flubu fludarabine busulfan total dose9.6 mgkg 3 days of intravenous bu and 2 refractory aml patients received flamsa-bu fludarabine amsacrine busulfan conditioning treatments.

fecal samples were taken as indicated in  d at days 213 sample ''a07- 1'' day 75 sample ''a07-2'' and day 119 sample''a07-3''.

colored figure elements refer to the pretreatment sample blue a07-1 and the post- treatment sample red a07-3.were detected in the first sample 23 in the last sample and only 5 in a07-2 accounting for 0.07 overall.

from tp1 to tp3 the prokaryotic subpopulation drastically and significantly decreased in di- versity 2.2-fold reduction  a and richness 1.3-fold reduction  b. on the genus level average decreases of 119- 47- and 44-fold relative abundances of the genera roseburia bifidobacterium and blautia respectively were observed from tp1 to tp3  c. at the taxonomic rank of order decreased bacteroidales relative abundance was observed in parallel with increased bacillales  d. moreover we identified only 1 otu belonging to the domain archaea the methanogen methanobrevibacter smithii that was detected in 13 of 35 total samples and 10 of 15 patients with a total of 914 reads.analysis of the eukaryotic community did not reveal sta- tistically significant differences in shannon diversity  e or chao1 richness  f between the different tps with no apparent statistically significant difference being observed for the 8 patients undergoing specific antifungal treatments.

integrated meta-omic analyses of the gastrointestinal tract microbiome in patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantationanne kaysen anna heintz-buschart emilie e. l. muller1 shaman narayanasamy linda wampach cedric c. laczny2 norbert graf arne simon katharina franke joeur rg bittenbring paul wilmes and jochen g. schneiderbelvaux luxembourg homburg germanyin patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation allo- hsct treatment-induced changes to the gastrointestinal tract git microbiome have been linked to adverse outcomes most notably graft-versus-host disease gvhd.

following written informed consent 16 patients undergoing allo-hsct were enrolled in the study.for microbial diversity and richness analyses patients were included only if fecal samples were obtained from at least 2 of the following time points 1 up to 8 days before allo-hsct designated time point-1 ''tp1'' 2 directly after allo-hsct up to 4 days after allo-hsct ''tp2'' andor 3 shortly after the expected time of engraftment between days 20 and day 33 after allo- hsct ''tp3''.

fecal samples were pretreated as described in heintz- buschart et al.dna and rna were extracted from this pretreated sample as described previously using the dnarnaprotein kit qiagen hilden germany and additional dna was obtained using the powersoil dna isolation kit mo bio laboratories carlsbad calif. extracted biomolecules were stored at 280oc until sequencing.16s and 18s rrna gene amplicon sequencing and data analysis.

moreover arg expression was higher in both samples from patient a07 compared with arg expression in rhms  b.we were then interested in whether higher numbers of args could also be detected in the specific populations of e. coli and e. faecium.

here gene expression was calculated as the ratio of the average mt depth of coverage to the average mg depth of coverage for individual genes.published human git microbiome mg and mt read data from 4 healthy individuals was obtained from the ncbi sequence read archive of data sets mg srx247379 srx247391 srx247401 srx247405 mt srx247335 srx247345 srx247349srx247340.sequencing reads were processed using imp version 1.2.1. data from the individuals ''x310763260'' ''x316192082'' ''x317690558'' and''x316701492'' are referred to as the ''reference healthy microbiome'' rhm.taxonomic affiliation of reconstructed population-level genomes.

