control mice exposed to dietary biotin deprivation did not show any signs of alopecia however mice developed alopecia when treated with vancomycin b. by contrast no noticeable alopecia was observed in mice treated with polymyxin b b. histological study detected an increase in anagen hair follicles in alopecic mice which was not detected in the other groups c. however detailed microscopic inves- tigation of the skin surface revealed the breakage of hair shafts d demonstrating that increased hair fragility in a hair shaft is a major contributing factor explaining the hair loss phenotype in alopecic mice.

control gf mice and l. murinus monocolonized mice were then fed a biotin-deficient diet a. scanning electron mi- croscopy showed that l. murinus successfully colonized the proximal colon b. consistent with previous reports the gut microbiota plays a key role in the maintenance of biotin levels as demonstrated in gf mice fed a biotin-deficient diet which exhibits alopecia  deprivation of dietary biotin promoted the development of mild alopecia in gf mice c. monocolonization of l. murinus further aggravated the alopecia symptom in gf mice fed a biotin-deficient diet c and 3d.

principal-coordinates analysis pcoa plots of weighted unifrac distances revealed that the gut microbiota profile of these alopecia mice was significantly distinct from that of the other groups b. vancomycin but not poly- mixin b treatment significantly reduced bacterial diversity in both normal diet- and biotin - diet-fed groups compared to normal normal diet and no antibiotics treated control mice  c. alopecia mice biotin - diet vcm showed further reduction of bacterial diversity compared to normal  vcm mice normal diet and vcm c. to identify a species level of the lactobacillus we performed phylogenetic analysis of the 16s rrna gene sequence of isolated colonies from mrs de man rogosa and sharpe agar and compared the results with reference sequences obtained from the genbank database.

most of the hair follicles in gf mice consuming a normal diet and gf mice fed a biotin-deficient diet were in the tel- ogen phase whereas the hair follicles of gf mice fed a biotin- deficient diet with l.murinus were in the proliferating anagen phase e. consistent with data obtained from specific pathogen-free spf mice c cellular infiltration was not evident around hair follicles in all groups e. further- more the expression of proinflammatory cytokine genes such as tumor necrosis factor-a and interferon-g in the skin did not differ between the groups f. biotin concentration both in the gut and serum was significantly decreased in the biotin-deficient group and was even lower in the biotin-deficient with l. murinus group g and 3h.

the data were compared to normal mice as control p  0.05. the data were compared to normal  vcm mice with biotin -  vcm mice p  0.05. pb polymyxin b. vcm vancomycin.see also figures s2 and s3.hca showed that alopecia mice fed the biotin-deficient diet with l. murinus were distinct from other groups figures s5a- s5c.

pcoa plots of weighted unifrac distances showed that the gut microbiota pro- file of alopecia mice was significantly distinct from those of the other groups e. the diversity of the fecal gut microbiota of reversed alopecia mice was considerably greater than that of alopecia mice f. qpcr analysis revealed that lactoba- cillus and l. murinus were significantly decreased in reversed al- opecia mice g and 4h.

these results indicated that gut dysbiosis accompanied with the domi- nation of l. murinus might influence alopecia symptom.alopecia induced by monocolonization of l. murinusin gf mice is biotin dependentto determine whether the single strain of l. murinus plays a causal role in the induction of alopecia gf mice were mono- colonized with l. murinus isolated from feces of alopecia mice.

biotin-deficient germ-free gf mice develop alopecia which does not occur in conventional mice suggesting that microbiota plays a pivotal role in biotin metabolism.

to determine how gut bacterial dysbiosis contributes to alopecia c57bl6 wild-type wt mice were treated with antibiotics targeting gram-positive vancomycin and gram-negative polymyxin b bacteria and fed a diet with or without biotin a. none of the mice fed a biotin-deficient diet exhibited growth defects.

in addition the expression of some inflammatory mediators in the skin was not increased in alopecic mice although it remains possible that other yet to be tested inflammatory mediators are elevated in these mice e and s1.

the data were compared to normal mice as control p  0.05. pb polymyxin b. vcm vancomycin.see also figure s1.abcdefghfigure 3. alopecia induced by monocolonization of l. murinus in gf mice is biotin dependentexperimental design.

gf mice were either untreated or orally inoculated with l.murinus 1 3 108 cells200 ml.scanning electron microscopy showing the distal colon of l.murinus-monoassociated mice fed a biotin-deficient diet.

mice deprived of external sources of biotin exhibit substantial amounts of fecal biotin because these mice can still utilize biotinylated proteins as a reservoir for biotin and secrete biotin into the gut and urine.

then normal mice were intraperitoneally injected with pbs gr.1 or alopecic mice were injected with biotin 100 mg100 ml gr.

reportintestinal dysbiosis and biotin deprivation induce alopecia through overgrowth of lactobacillus murinus in micegraphical abstracthighlightsd antibiotic-induced dysbiosis promotes alopecia in mice fed a biotin-deficient dietd vancomycin treatment results in overgrowth of lactobacillus murinusd lactobacillus murinus consumes and reduces available biotin in the gutd lactobacillus murinus promotes alopecia in a biotin- dependent mannerauthorsatsushi hayashi yohei mikami kentaro miyamoto ... masayuki amagai manabu ohyama takanori kanaicorrespondencein briefgut microbiota metabolism affects host physiology beyond the gastrointestinal tract.

