the characteristics of each group including sample numbering are the followings group 1campo infected flies number 1-8 group 2campo non-infected flies number 9-16 group 3bipindi infected flies number 17-24 group 4bipindi non-infected flies number 25-32 group5fontem non-infected flies number 33-40 figure 2.dissection of tsetse flies dna extraction and trypanosome pcr amplificationthe non-teneral flies were surface-sterilized once with 5 sodium hypochlorite for 10 min and twice with 70 ethanol each for 10 min and the midgut of each fly was dissected under sterile conditions using a bunsen burner and in sterile nacl 0.9. the instruments used were carefully cleaned after the dissection of each fly to prevent cross-contamination.

displayed the highest prevalence 43 in infected flies from bipindi with t. congolense accounting for 42. as for the fontem focus the low number of collected flies 27 flies prevented any reliable statistical analysis regarding the prevalence of the infected flies in this focus inasmuch as all of the 27 flies were uninfected which does not imply that the overall population of flies is uninfected.bacterial communities in the g. p. palpalismidgutillumina sequencing of 16s rdna gene generated a total of 2562144 high-quality sequence reads across the v3-v4 region in 40 tsetse flies for the 40 samples randomly selected.

nonmetric multidimensional scaling nmds were generated using the r packages ggplot2 and phyloseq mcmurdie and holmes 2013.resultsdistribution of tsetse flies by infected vs. non-infected statusthe distribution of trypanosome species andor subspecies in the midgut of tsetse flies from campo 200 flies and bipindi 200 flies is displayed in figure 3. nearly half of all flies whether from campo 51.4 or from bipindi 48.6 were infected with at least one of the four studied trypanosome species andor subspecies.

2014 identified a high number of bacteria species in the gut microbiota of several tsetse fly species collected in uganda using molecular approaches although the bacteriome of uganda flies was less diverse than the one of flies from cameroon.compared to the bacterial communities of flies from uganda flies from cameroon revealed both similarities namely enterobacteriaceae and an unexpected high abundance of wigglesworthia and differences bacteria belonging to the genus delftia stenotrophomonas thermoanaerobacterium proteus and ochrobactrum among others were not found in flies from cameroon.

2014 understanding the association of serratia with tsetse flies and its functional role in tsetse physiology could provide critical knowledge about trypanosome transmission dynamics in tsetse flies.

a high number of sequences assigned to the pseudomonas sphingomonas and hyphomicrobiaceae were detected in sample 26 and 74 species were found in sample 32.bacterial communities between infected and uninfected flies from the different geographic located hatthe average number of bacterial species per tsetse sample was not significantly different regarding their group kruskal- wallis p-value  0.342 their geographical origin kruskal- wallis p-value  0.167 or their status infected vs. non-infected kruskal-wallis p-value  0.836.we investigated potential relationships between the structure of the gut microbial communities of tsetse flies from campobipindi and fontem foci and the fly's trypanosome infection status.

thus despite the viviparous reproduction of tsetse flies in contrast to other dipterans that prevent fly contamination at the larval stage except for the symbionts that are vertically transmitted from the mother to the larva via milk gland secretions the modes of acquiring exogenous bacteria by tsetse flies seems to be more diverse than previously believed and could explain the recorded large microbiota diversity herein.

among the 599 non-teneral flies that were caught in the campo focus 200 were randomly sampled their midguts dissected see below and observed under a light microscope magnification x100 to detect the presence of motile trypanosomes infected flies or the absence of trypanosomes non-infected flies.

howeverthe statistical analyses of the identified bacteria in this study did not reveal any significant differences in the sample bacterial species richness between the different groups campo and bipindi infected and uninfected flies as well as fontem uninfected flies or the status of the flies infected vs. uninfected.

finally the most important result was the evidence of the overall very large diversity of intestinal bacteria which except for wigglesworthia were unevenly distributed over the sampled flies regardless of their geographic origin and their trypanosome infection status.keywords glossina trypanosome microbiome meta-taxonomics sleeping sickness naganaintroductionanimal african trypanosomiasis aat or nagana is primarily caused by trypanosoma brucei brucei tbb trypanosoma vivax and trypanosoma congolense which are transmitted to their mammalian hosts by tsetse flies belonging to the species glossina palpalis and glossina morsitans.

2014. the transcriptional signatures of sodalis glossinidius in the glossina palpalis gambiensis flies negative for trypanosoma brucei gambiense contrast with those of this symbiont in tsetse flies positive for the parasite possible involvement of a sodalis-hosted prophage in fly trypanosoma refractoriness infect.

since dead bacteria provide the same dna signature as do living bacteria further investigations should aim to isolate bacteria of interest only such approach will provide bestevidence of their presence as a living organism in the tsetse gut.bacterial species richness of the samples alpha diversityalthough the analyzed midgut bacteriome of adult tsetse flies included 103 species belonging to 13 phyla only 4 of them were dominant proteobacteria bacteroidetes actinobacteria and firmicutes showing some similarities with gut microbial communities from other invertebrates such as cattle tick andreotti et al.

2004 and then sorted into two groups of teneral young flies that had never taken a blood meal and non-teneral flies respectively.

among the 300 flies caught in bipindi 200 were sampled and processed as for the campo flies.

only 27 non-teneral flies could be caught in fontem as shown after dissection microscopy and pcr analyses they all were non-infected by trypanosomes.the microbiota analysis was performed on g. p. palpalis flies that had undergone further selection.

