germ-free mice resulted in the latter in a tendency to accelerate the deposition of body fat than after transplantation of microbiota from lean mice 42. in another experiment it has been shown that in contrast to mice with gut microbiota gf animals do not have a tendency to gain weight despite eating a high-fat and carbohydrate diet 41. all these reports tend to reflect on the fundamental importance of the gut microbiota in maintaining health and normal body weight and probably that is why the interest which initiated research into the role of gut bacteria in obesity quickly covered the opposite pole of disorders focusing lately on the problem of anorexia.intestinal microbiota - the role in the regulation of body mass in anorexia nervosabased on the latest reports 46-49 we may suspect that the gut dysbiosis observed in patients with anorexia nervosa significantly affects the course of the illness and any modifications to the intestinal microbiota can become in the near future a helpful therapy for this disorder.animal studiesin 2013 a group of spanish scientists published the results of the research on rats which show significant differences in the composition of gut microbiota in the course of anorexia and significant correlation between the composition of microbiota and the plasma concentration of hormones regulating appetite - leptin and ghrelin 50. in the group of rats with special dietary needs a significant increase in the number of bacteria and archaea such as proteobacteria bacteroides clostridium enterococcusprevotella and m. smithii and a reduction in the number of bacteria actinobacteria firmicutes bacteroidetes b. coccoides e. rectale lactobacillus and bifidobacterium was noted compared with the group of normally nourished rats.

these results confirm the hypothesis that the gut microbiota in patients with anorexia nervosa is significantly different from that observed in healthy subjects.one of the latest research exploring the relationships between gut microbiota and anorexia is the one carried out in 2015 by kleiman et al.

in the experimental mice there was an increase in intestinal barrier permeability reduced expression of claudin-1 and histological changes of the intestinal wall which may suggest a dysfunction in intestinal barrier in the course of anorexia.one of the studies in animal models also showed that transplantation of bacteria species christensenella minuta into the intestine of mice affected the inhibition of weight gain in these animals by changing the composition of the gut microbiota 52. the results of these diverse studies confirm the important role of gut microbiota in regulation of body weight and the development of anorexia.human subjects researchin 2009 a group of french researchers examined stool samples from 20 obese patients 9 patients suffering from anorexia nervosa and 20 healthy vol- unteers with normal weight in terms of the number of bacteria from groups bacteroidetes firmicutes and lactobacillus and archaea methanobrevibacter smithii 46. the results confirmed the increased amount of the lactobacillus genus in obese patients.

in addition there was a significant correlation between the increase in the number and taxonomic diversity of enteric bacteria and the improvement of the mood amongrespondents assessed using the beck depression inventory and the beck anxiety inventory.it is worth mentioning that in recent years a number of scientific studies have con- firmed the effect of gut microbiota on the mood and behavior through its participation in the proper functioning of the gut-brain axis 60-62. further it has been demonstrated that modification of the gut microbiota with probiotic bacteria may have a significant effect on reducing the amount and severity of symptoms of depression and anxiety 63-66. in the light of these reports we may suspect that the changes in the microbiota composition observed in patients with anorexia are closely associated with comorbid symptoms such as anxiety and depressed mood.based on the research of kleiman et al.

this may suggest the existence of significant differences in the composition of the gut microbiota in the course of anorexia but on the basis of a single study it is difficult to assess how the identified species are specific to anorexia nervosa.

the results of previous studies are very promising and create a solid base for exploration of innovative methods of treatment of anorexia nervosa based on themodification of the gut microbiota.referencespapadopoulos fc ekbom a brandt l ekselius l. excess mortality causes of death and prog- nostic factors in anorexia nervosa.

comparing the stool samples of 25 women suffer- ing from anorexia nervosa 14 with restrictive type of anorexia and 11 with bulimic type of anorexia with samples of 21 healthy volunteers from the same age group japanese researchers found significant differences in the composition of microbiota of anorexic patients.

lps directly affects neuronal activity in the limbic system 27 and by the activation of microglia and proinflam- matory cytokines it is responsible for generalized inflammatory response observed in the course of most mental disorders 28.as the gut microbiota highly influences the development of lymphoid tissue and differentiation of the immune system cells 29 30 intestinal dysbiosis is responsible for the disorders of normal immune response with the observed advantage of proin- flammatory cytokines and as a consequence the weakening of broadly understood immunity 31.the gut dysbiosis also causes a significant decrease in the absorption of essential nutrients such as vitamins and essential amino acids 32 and thus may lead to main- taining the state of cachexia observed in the undernourished individuals 33.the role of the intestinal microbiota in malnutrition and cachexiaa close relationship between malnutrition and increased permeability of the intes- tinal barrier has long been known 34. research suggests that disorders of the barrier continuity are closely related to abnormal functioning of the gut-associated lymphoid tissue galt and the onset of the acute phase reaction 34 35. in undernourished patients activation of lymphocytes and enterocytes a significant increase in plasma concentrations of proinflammatory il-6 and crp were observed - which closely correlated with the severity of dietary restrictions and a decrease in the expression of anti-inflammatory il-10.

1998 423 396-401.genton l cani pd schrenzel j. alterations of gut barrier and gut microbiota in food restrictionfood deprivation and protein-energy wasting.

for this purpose a review of the literature available in the databases of pubmed and the google scholar has been made by typing keywords microbiota microbiome anorexia nervosa probiotic gut- brain axis and the time descriptors 2005-2015.intestinal microbiota definitions composition performed functionsthe term microbiota defines a community of commensal symbiotic and pathogenic microorganisms residing in the human body 14. guts are the habitat for about 1013-1014 microorganisms mainly bacteria firmicutes and bacteroidetes but also fungi viruses and archaea 15. the gut microbiota significantly affects proper functioning of the human body and because of its numerous and complex tasks it is often referred to as the forgotten organ 16 responsible among other things for the energy balance of the body 17. it takes part in digestion and fermentation of nutrients and in complex changes associated with the storage of energy obtained from food in the form of short-chain fatty acids 18. in addition it is responsible for the production of neurohormones mainly serotonin 19 polyamines and vitamins b and k as well as the mineral metabolism and efficient functioning of the immune system 20 21. increasingly the crucial role of the microbiota in the gut-brain axis functioning is also emphasized 22 and even in the modulation of brain development by affecting its function on the basis of complex neuronal endocrine and immune mechanisms 23.intestinal dysbiosis and possible health consequencesthe term intestinal dysbiosis describes a condition in which the altered composi- tion of the intestinal microbiota and its malfunction negatively influences the health of the host 24. dysbiosis affects the central nervous system by numerous interactions occurring in the gut-brain axis mainly through an increase in the permeability of the intestinal barrier 25. by participating in the maturation and exchange of enterocytes intestinal microbiota facilitates proper functioning of intestinal epithelium and thus plays a critical role in maintaining the continuity of that barrier 26. porous intestinal epithelium is the gateway for proinflammatory bacterial endotoxins such as lipopoly- saccharide lps of gram-negative commensal bacteria.

these data suggest a significant effect of the gut microbiota on the regulation of appetite.on the other hand jesus et al 51. in 2014 described the functioning of intestinal barrier in activity-based anorexia in mice.

49. the study characterizes gut microbiota composition of 16 patients with anorexia nervosa at baseline and after treatment completion with weight gain.

49 it is certainly difficult to draw the unambiguous conclusion that gut dysbiosis is a direct cause or effect of observed anorexia nervosa symptoms.

therefore it seems reasonable to suppose that the modification of the gut microbiota composition particularly as regards its diversity could have important therapeutic effect by reduc- ing the severity of the symptoms of anorexia normalization of weight loss and the improvement of the mood of patients.further studies require identification of specific species of bacteria the supplemen- tation or elimination of which would directly affect restoration of normal body weight.

the currently ongoing clinical study in denmark aimed at a thorough analysis of 50 patients with anorexia by the microbiota sequencing and - for comparison - 50 healthy women may be helpful 67. comparison of the composition of the gut microbiota in such a large group of respondents can provide many valuable data crucial to the search for new ways of an therapy.

