among the pathogens suspected to contribute to hiv infection and reactivation one player stands out - neisseria gonor- rhoeae it was found to be highly associated with hiv infection and activation of hiv expression .

showed that n. gonorrhoeae by-product heptose-monophosphate is necessary for invoking these host responses c. thus the course of hiv infection can be altered negatively by lactate producers or positively by butyrate producers or n. gonorrhoeae preventing or favoring respectively de- velopment of immunodeficiency which may increase susceptibility to ebv and kshv infection which are responsible for a substantial pro- portion of hiv-related cancers.oral microbiomealthough many studies have been devoted to hiv in the genitaltract the connection between hiv oral microbiome and periodontal disease has also drawn the attention of the scientific community .

predominant bacteria in the vaginal microbiome secretes lactic acid capable of inactivating hiv b butyric acid secreted by vaginal microbiota induces hiv replication in human cd4 t lymphocyte and macrophagemonocyte cell lines harboring latent hiv c neisseria gonorrhoeae induces il-6 il-8 and tnfa production in genital epithelial cells and upregulates hiv gene expression in t-cells via heptose-monophosphate induced nf-kb and ap-1 pathways d domination of vaginal microbiota by lactobacillus gasseri is associated with faster hpv clearance e lactobacillus spp.

4. the role of periodontal disease in head and neck cancers can be mediated by the effects of hiv and herpesviruses ebv and kshv a butyric acid produced by periodontal pathogens such as fusobacterium nucleatum and porphyromonas gingivalis competitively inhibit histone deacetylases hdacs resulting in the reduced deacety- lation of histone proteins and sustaining viral gene expression b activation of hiv proviral gene expression through hdac in- hibition increases viral progeny production hiv infection suppresses systemic immune responses and aides in the acquisition of other viral infections c inhibition of hdac causes transcriptional activation of the bzlf1 promoter in ebv infected cells and results in production of zebra known switch for lytic cycle activation d inhibi- tion of hdacs in kshv-associated cells re- sult in the induction of mapk and expres- sion of lytic genes.

which is known to produce lactic acid may play an important role in protection against sexually transmitted diseases including hiv a. in contrast bacterial vaginosis predisposes females to sexually transmitted diseases  and can reactivate latent hiv infection .

due to the absence of vaccines and ways to eliminate hiv understanding risk factors contributing to the pathogenesis of hiv infections becomes a priority.sexual transmission is one of the most common ways to acquire hiv suggesting that vaginal microbiota may influence this process.

found that stimulation of hiv infected t-cells with tlr3 4 or 5 ligands leads to enhanced hiv-1 replication via direct activation of hiv long terminal repeats or by inducing secreted factors that promote hiv replication .

interestingly butyric acid-producing bacteria fusobacterium nucleatum porphyromonas gingi- valis clostridium cochlearium eubacterium multiforme and anaerococcus tetradius residing in different mucosal environments gut vaginal and oral cavities are capable of reactivating latent hiv infection through host hdac pathways figs.

1. model of bacteria-virus interactions in cancer development and progression a direct interaction between bacteria or bacterial by-products and virus resulting in in- hibition or promotion of viral infection into host cell b indirect interaction between bacteria and virus mediated by host response to bacterial stimuli through activation of various pattern recognition receptors.in disease development and progression.

this inhibition resulted in increased acetylation of adjacent histone and transcriptional activation of the bzlf1 promoter whose gene product zebra is known to be the master regulator in ebv transition from latency to lytic state d. taken together with the case of kshv there is com-pelling evidence for the ability of butyric acid producing bacteria such as p. gingivalis main player in periodontitis to reactivate latent her- pesvirus infection and contribute to the development of cancer in the oral cavity.as described above butyric-acid producing bacteria especially the periodontopathogens p. gingivalis can regulate the viral life cycle in host cells.

corresponding authors.e-mail addresses n. shulzhenko a. morgun.1 equal contributors.received 19 february 2017 received in revised form 3 may 2017 accepted 30 may 20171044-5323c2017elsevierltd.allrightsreserved.model descriptionthe role of bacteria and bacterial microbiota in viral infections leading to cancer can be assigned to two broad categories bacteria that influence viral particles and bacteria that affect host interaction with viral infection.on the one hand healthy microbiota was shown to contribute to infections by interacting with viruses directly and through bacterial by- products .

thus it is likely that prevotella or prevotella-driven vaginal micro- biome may act in favor of persistent hpv infection promoting cervical cancer development through upregulation of cell proliferation and chronic inflammation.aside from the common members of vaginal microbiota pathogens have also been suspected in the promotion of hpv infection.

in- vestigation of the potential mechanism of how c. trachomatis infection may influence hpv infection and cancer development are underway.

infection is transmitted from host to host via salivary contact and the virus passes through the oropharyngeal epithelium to b lym- phocytes where it establishes a lifelong latent infection.

indeed several studies found an association between the risk of hiv infection and bacterial vaginosis .

