eur j endocrinol 2015 172r167-77.kau al ahern pp griffin nw goodman al gordon ji.

1.46 to confirm the essential role of this mutualistic relationship studies have shown that gf mice and mice deficient in activa- tion-induced cytidine deaminase have decreased plasma cells and alterations in the gut microbiota composition respectively.42-46gut microbiota and autoimmune diseasesevidence from animal models has implied the direct involvement of gut microbiota in disease development and some intestinal microbiota are associated with autoimmune diseases.24-26intestinal dysbiosis observed in autoimmune diseases is associated with decreased bacterial function and diversity impaired gut barrier function increased inflammation and decreased treg cells in the gut.4748 additionally thehypotheses proposed to link intestinal dysbiosis with autoimmune diseases include molecular mimicry bystan- der t-cell activation and the amplification of autoimmu- nity by pro-inflammatory milieu which is elicited by altered gut microbiota.49 finally a more recent hypothesis proposed by lerner et al.

however protection against diabetes in these mice is abrogated by the administration of antibiotics and gf conditions suggesting that commensal bacteria may be important to reduce disease susceptibility in these mice.53 additionally emani et al.

2. additionally recent studies showed that the composition of the intesti- nal microbiota is altered in children with pre-diabetes with genetic susceptibility and autoantibodies against b-cells.64-66studies from the de goffau group showed that chil- dren with autoantibodies against b-cells exhibit anincreased number of bacteroidetes and decreased abun- dance of lactate and butyrate-producing bacteria in fae- ces.6365 in agreement with this study brown et al.

showed a decreased number of mucin-degrading and butyrate-producing bacteria in t1d patients compared with healthy controls.67 butyrate has anti-inflammatory activity induces treg cell differentiation in the gut and enhances the gut barrier via tight junctions.64endesfelder et al.

2.murri et al.

furthermore the firmicutes  bacteroidetes ratio and levels of lacto- bacillus bifidobacterium and prevotella were decreased in these patients.72davis-richardson et al.

these data suggest that early dysbiosis may be relevant to predict t1d in genetically predisposed individuals.73kostic et al.

furthermore the gut microbiota from subjects with nega- tive and positive autoantibodies grouped together but infigure 2. a schematic representation of the intestinal dysbiosis in organ-specific autoimmune diseases in humans.a different cluster from newly diagnosed patients.75 this study and the work performed by meiia-leon et al.

the induction of eae in gf mice resulted in the reduction of ifn-c and il-17a in the cns accompanied by an increase in the number of treg cells in the gut.81in patients recent studies have evaluated seven individ- uals with relapsing-remitting ms rrms and found a reduction in firmicutes bacteroidetes and proteobacteria members.8788 jhangi et al.

2.chen et al.

the 'toxaemic factor' hypoth- esis was proposed in the twentieth century when it was suggested that the increase in the level of gram-negative bacteria in the intestinal lumen could induce an increase in toxic moleculesmetabolites that enter the bloodstream promoting systemic inflammation.100 recent studies have shown that the intestinal microbiota of newly diagnosed ra patients was dominated by gram-negative prevotella members especially prevotella copri compared with healthy individuals.108109 in the work of maeda et al.

3.another study which was performed by liu et al.

investigated the lactobacillus community by quantitative real-time pcr in faecal samples from 15 patients with ra and 15 healthy controls and reported increased absolute copy numbers of lactobacillus salivarius lactobacillus iners and lactobacillus ruminis in untreated ra patients that were recently diagnosed.110chen et al.

regarding immune response it is known that autoanti- bodies bind mainly with nuclear and cytoplasmic anti- gens.116 moreover increased evidence has emerged that suggests the role of intestinal dysbiosis in sle develop- ment.117in female lupus-prone mice zhang et al.

