2015. however these studies have focused on full-term infants and this interaction has not been explored in other populations such as preterm babies where weight-gain may be an indicator of maturation and positive outcome.preterm infants present an immature immune system and gut barrier which leads to an increased disease risk.

2016. since lactobacilli are often used as probiotics their ability as well as that of non- pathogenic weissella strains to promote growth and maturation in preterm infants should be further explored.moreover early microbiota was associated with later weight- gain suggesting a potential effect of the early microbiota in weight-gain in preterm infants.

in this study we aimed at evaluating the relationship among early microbiota growth and development in preterm infants.

moreover clustering of the infants on the basis of the microbiota composition at 1 month of age rendered groups which showed differences in weight z-scores.

our results suggest an association between the gut microbiota composition and weight-gain in preterm infants at early life and point out potential microbial targets for favoring growth and maturation in these infants.keywords newborn premature-infant weight-gain colonization microbiota probioticsintroductionmicrobial colonization of the neonatal gut provides a stimulus necessary for the development of the intestine and the physiological homeostasis hooper and macpherson 2010 sommer and backhed 2013. the early neonatal period represents the most important moment for this microbiota- induced maturation of the host being a key determinant for later health el aidy et al.

epidemiologycal data in infants are also available evidencing associations between microbiota composition and later obesity koleva et al.

moreover the process of microbiota establishment is altered in these infants who harbor more enterobacteriaceae and potential pathogens and less commensals than full-terms arboleya et al.

2012 2015. in these infants the nutritional goal is achieving a weight-gain and body composition approximating the fetal intrauterine growth brennan et al.

thus developing strategies to enhance growth and maturation of preterm infants could be of clinical interest.

given the relationship between microbiota and weight-gain the gut microbiota establishment process may constitute an adequate target.the present study aims at evaluating the potential relationship between early microbiota development and weight-gain in preterm neonates.materials and methodssubjects and samplessixty-three preterm infants born at gestational ages between28 and 33 weeks were recruited at the neonatology units of cabuenes hospital and the university central hospital of asturias northern spain.

none of the infants had necrotizing enterocolitis or culture positive early onset infection.

all infants received mixed feeding infant formula and some breast-milk administration during the study period.

the infants were discharged from the hospital after an average stay of 38 days of hospitalization.fecal samples were collected at 2 10 and 30 days-of-age and weights determined monthly up to 3 months.

during the 3 months of duration of the study 35 of the infants received antibiotics at some time most of them during the first month.

2012 2016.after the first few days infants' weight increased fitting well into a linear structure supplementary figure 1. initial exploratory analyses were conducted by using generalized mixed linear effects model with infant as random effect and gestational age as spline.

