however despite observed pro-inflammatory immune responses with pronounced intestinal epithelial apoptosis sequelae of intestinal mdr p. aeruginosa carriage was not sufficient enough to drive gut microbiota shifts towards overgrowth with potentially pro-inflammatory commensals.conclusionour study demonstrates that in with a complex microbiota reconstituted secondary abiotic mice the established intestinal microbiota irrespective whether of human or murine origin does not sufficiently prevent the host from intestinal colonization with a mdr p. aeruginosa strain.

following peroral challenge with a clinical p. aeruginosa isolate on two consecutive days mice harboring a human or murine microbiota were only partially protected from stable intestinal p. aeruginosa colonization given that up to 78 of mice were p. aeruginosa-positive at day 28 post-infection p.i.. irrespective of the host-specificity of the microbiota p. aeruginosa colonized mice were clinically uncompromised.

this is even more surprising given that not all mice under investigation were stable p. aeruginosa carriers further underlining the pathogenic potential of mdr p. aeruginosa.despite several reports of diarrhea caused by p. aeruginosa in patients with prior antibiotic treatment p. aeruginosa is not regarded as a common intestinal pathogen in the healthy host    .

experiments were reproduced at least twice.resultsintestinal p. aeruginosa colonization in mice harboring a complex human vs. murine gut microbiotain the present study we addressed whether a complex human or murine gut microbiota could sufficiently confer colonization resistance against mdr p. aeruginosa to the vertebrate host and if not whether intestinal p. aeruginosa carriage resulted in intestinal or even systemic inflammatory sequelae.

hence cytokine responses upon intestinal colonization with mdr p. aeruginosawere not restricted to the intestinal tract but could also be observed systemically.discussionin recent years the rising incidences of infections with mdr gram-negative bacterial including p. aeruginosa strains has gained increasing attention not only in the medical field but also in the general public and global health politics    .

prior infection the p. aeruginosa strain was grown on cetrimide agar oxoid for 48 h in an aerobic atmosphere at 37c.on days 0 and 1 mice were perorally challenged with 109 cfuof the mdr p. aeruginosa strain by gavage in a total volume of0.3 ml pbs as reported earlier  .for quantitative assessment of fecal p. aeruginosa loads over time p.i.

then tls as well as the main bacterial groups abundant in the murine and human intestinal microbiota including eb ec lb bif bp clocc clept and mib were assessed by qrt-pcr with species- genera- or group-specific 16s rrna gene primers tib molbiol germany as described previously   and numbers of 16s rrna gene copies per ng dna of each sample determined.mdr p. aeruginosa infection and quantitative assessment of fecal loadsthe mdr p. aeruginosa isolate was initially cultured from respiratory material of a patient suffering from nosocomial pneumonia and kindly provided by prof. dr. bastian opitz charite - university medicine berlin germany.

however no data are available whether p. aeruginosa carriage particularly of a mdr strain results in distinct host immune responses.this prompted us to investigate whether mice harboring a human vs. murine gut microbiota could be stably colonized by a clinical mdr p. aeruginosa strain and whether opportunistic pathogenic carriage was associated with intestinal or even systemic inflammatory host responses.

subsequently innate immune cells are recruited to the site of infection contributing to inflammatory host responses directed against p. aeruginosa  .strikingly immune responses upon p. aeruginosa carriage were not restricted to the intestinal tract but could also be observed systemically given that tnf as well as ifn-g concentrations were elevated in spleens as early as 7 days p.i.

as early as 1918 however shanghai fever a community acquired syndrome characterized by diarrhea fever and p. aeruginosa sepsis with high mortality has been reported affecting neonates and children withoutpre-existing comorbidities primarily in asian populations          .given the potential cross-talk between opportunistic pathogens and commensal intestinal bacteria we addressed whether changes in respective gut microbiota compositions might occur during p. aeruginosa colonization.

it is however unclear whether intestinal mdr p. aeruginosa carriage is associated with inflammatory responses in intestinal or even systemic compartments.

strikingly cytokine responses upon intestinal p. aeruginosa colonization were not restricted to the intestinal tract but could also be observed systemically given that tnf and ifn-g concentrations were elevated in spleens as early as 7 days p.i.

hence the complex intestinal microbiota irrespective whether of human or murine origin prevented only a subgroup of mice from long- term intestinal mdr p. aeruginosa colonization.intestinal microbiota changes uponp.

as compared to non-challenged controls p  0.05- 0.01  and further increased until the end of the observation period p  0.05-0.001 vs. day 7 p.i..we additionally assessed ki67 positive cell numbers in intestinal epithelia indicative for proliferativeregenerative cell responses counteracting potential p. aeruginosa-induced intestinal inflammatory sequelae.

aeruginosa colonization of mice harboring a complex human vs. murine gut microbiotawe next addressed whether changes in intestinal innate and adaptive immune cell numbers upon p. aeruginosa colonization of human vs. murine fecal microbiota transplanted mice was accompanied by pro- andor anti-inflammatory cytokine responses within the intestinal tract.

