Incidence and dominance of skin and breast milk associated microbes were increased in the gut microbiome of breastfed infants compared to formula-fed infants.The approaches in this study indicate that microbiota development of breastfed and formula-fed infants proceeds according to similar developmental stages with microbiota signatures that include stage- specific species.The neonatal intestine is considered to become colonised with the first microbes immediately after birth  although recent studies have shown that in utero the environment may not be completely sterile .

.To identify microbiota signatures that represent significant developmental progression of the microbiotacomposition over time both the effects of individuality and feeding type were removed partial RDA and ena- bled the recognition of time-resolved early life microbiota developmental trajectories with high significance Fig.

Also the mother's milk microbiota may play an important role in the establishment of the gut microbiota of a breastfed infant.

Received 8 March 2017Accepted 6 July 2017 Published xx xx xxxxOPENIntestinal colonisation patterns in breastfed and formula-fedinfants during the first 12 weeks of life reveal sequential microbiota signaturesHarro M. Timmerman1 Nicole B. M. M. Rutten2 Jos Boekhorst1 Delphine M. Saulnier17 GuusA.

M. Kortman1 Nikhat Contractor38 Martin Kullen39 Esther Floris1 Hermie J. M. Harmsen5 Arine M. Vlieger2 Michiel Kleerebezem16  Ger T. Rijkers24The establishment of the infant gut microbiota is a highly dynamic process dependent on extrinsic and intrinsic factors.

We characterized the faecal microbiota of 4 breastfed infants and 4 formula-fed infants at 17 consecutive time points during the first 12 weeks of life.

In this dataset individuality was a major driver of microbiota composition P 0.002 and was more pronounced in breastfed infants.

The development of the intestinal microbiota is highly dynamic due to initial low stability limited bacterial richness and low diversity of the ecosystem that is establishing  .

Additionally shotgun metagenomics can provide an unprecedented functional view of the microbiota in the context of health and disease.

A recent study by applying shotgun metagenomics revealed that cessation of breastfeeding was one of the key factors driving maturation of the gut microbiome into an adultlike composition and functionally encoded capacity.In this study the development of the infant intestine microbiota was determined in the first 12 weeks of life employing a high sampling frequency to enable in depth phylogenetic reconstruction of the de novo-colonisation of the newborn when fed a milk-based diet only.

