chimeric mice with bone marrow-derived cells that lacked cle- c7a expression had slightly lower ratios of liver to body weight supplemental figure 4a and developed less severe ethanol-induced liver injury figure 3 c and d and steatosis figure 3 e and f than chimeric mice with bone marrow- derived cells that expressed clec7a.chimeric mice lacking clec7a on bone marrow-derived cells also had fewer f480-pos- itive cells in the liver following ethanol feeding than mice with wt bone marrow figure 3 g and h. plasma levels of ethanol and hepatic ethanol metabolism did not differ significantly with etha- nol feeding in chimeric mice supplemental fig- ure 4 b-d. following ethanol administration paracellular intestinal permeability as quanti- fied by plasma level of lps and 13-b-d-glucan did not differ between mice with wt versus clec7a-- bone marrow supplemental figure 4 e and f. these findings indicate that clec7a expression on kupffer cells and possibly other bone marrow-derived cells contributes to liver disease following chronic ethanol administration without altering ethanol metabolism or affecting ethanol-induced gut barrier dysfunction.in mice fed ethanol fungal products induce secretion of il-1b from kupffer cells via clec7a signaling.

clec7a-- mice have been described 40. heterozygous clec7a- mice on a c57bl6 genetic background were bred to generate mice without disruption of clec7a wt and mice with homozygous disrup- tion clec7a-- mice.

this colo- calization disappeared from livers of mice given amphotericin b. consistent with our data from mice given amphotericin b chime- ric mice lacking clec7a on kupffer cells expressed lower levels of il1b mrna and il-1b protein figure 4 d and e due to reduced expression by kupffer cells figure 4f.

p  0.05.that levels of il1b mrna and il-1b protein significantly increased after chronic administration of ethanol to wt mice figure 4 a and b. amphotericin b prevented increases in hepatic il1b mrna and il-1b protein following ethanol feeding figure 4 a and b. inflammation mediated by kupffer cells is required for etha- nol-induced liver disease 28. it is therefore possible that cle- c7a-mediated signals in kupffer cells are required for induction of il-1b and liver inflammation.using immunofluorescence analysis we found that in livers of ethanol-fed mice f480 colocalized with il-1b figure 4c indicating that kupffer cells are the main liver cell type to express and secrete il-1b during ethanol-induced liver disease.

mice receiving amphotericin b devel- oped less severe ethanol-associated liver disease these mice had lower levels of liver injury based on plasma level of alanine aminotransferase and hepatic steatosis than mice receiving vehicle figure 2 c and d. this was confirmed by measure- ment of hepatic triglycerides and staining for hepatic steatosis figure 2 e and f. amphotericin b also prevented a hepatic increase of the macrophage marker f480 indicating a lowernumber of inflammatory kupffer cells figure 2 g and h.to determine whether treatment with amphotericin b affects intestinal absorption and hepatic metabolism of ethanol we measured plasma levels of ethanol and analyzed hepatic ethanol metabolism.

p  0.05.investigate whether innate immune signaling through clec7a on bone marrow-derived cells and kupffer cells mediates the effect of translocated fungal products following chronic ethanol adminis- tration we generated clec7a bone marrow chimeric mice using a combination of clodronate-mediated kupffer cell depletion irra-diation and bone marrow transplantation wt or clec7a-deficient bone marrow was trans- planted into wt recipient mice.

quiescent hepatic stellate cells were isolated from c57bl6 mice and activated hepatic stellate cells were purified from mice exposed to carbon tetrachloride.

curdlan induced il1b mrna expres- sion and il-1b secretion in wt kupffer cells and at much lower levels in clec7a-- kupffer cells figure 5 a and b. curdlan-stimulated kupffer cells that lackedclec7a still expressed higher levels of il1b mrna and il-1b protein than unstimulated clec7a-- kupffer cells.

in addition total numbers of bacteria did not differ significantly between mice given vehicle versus amphotericin b while fed ethanol supplemental figure 2f.chronic ethanol administration is associ- ated with a breach in the gut barrier and lower expression of intestinal tight junction proteins 23. we confirmed that occludin expression decreased in the jejunum after chronic ethanol feeding of mice given vehicle similar to the reduced expression in mice receiving ampho- tericin b supplemental figure 2g.

plasma il-1b did not sig-nificantly differ between mice lacking clec7a on bone marrow-derived cells following ethanol feeding and mice with wt bone marrow data not shown.

unpaired student's t test a and b mann-whitney u-statistic test d 1-way anova with newman-keuls post-test e. p  0.05.in the liver of chimeric mice that received clec7a-- bone marrow versus mice with wt bone marrow following ethanol administra- tion supplemental figure 5b.we transferred conditioned medium from kupffer cells stimulated with curdlan to cultured primary mouse hepato- cytes.

c57bl6 mice were gavaged with 200 ml carbon tetrachloride 25 volvol in corn oil twice weekly for 6 weeks 57. kupffer cells were isolated from c57bl6 clec7a-- or casp1-- mice which are also casp11-de- ficient generated by r. flavell yale university new haven ct usa 58 and selected by magnetic cell sorting using anti-cd11b micro beads miltenyi biotec.

cle- c7a is primarily expressed on myeloid cells 18 25. to determine the expression pattern of cle- c7a in liver parenchymal and nonparenchymal hepatic cells were isolated from wt mice.

cle- c7a mrna was highly expressed on kupffer cells but not on hepatocytes or hepatic stellate cells in mice figure 3a.

these results were confirmed in human liver cells and tissue sections supplemental figure 3 b and c. clec7a gene expression was not sig- nificantly different in liver and duodenal biopsies of alcohol-dependent patients as compared with controls supplemental figure 3 d and e. tofigure 3. mice lacking clec7a in bone marrow- derived cells are protected from ethanol-induced liver disease.

