at low density fish from pro group shared only 3.3 and 2.7 of the transcripts with fish from pre and mix groups respectively whereas fish from pre and mix groups shared 10.9. when fish were kept at high density exclusive transcripts increased from 4.8 to 9.3 in fish from pro group and from 7.8 to 19.2 in mix group whereas the pre group decreased from 11.2 to 4.1. also there was an increase on the shared transcripts between pro and mix groups from 2.7 to 12.6 .the intestinal transcriptomic differentially expressed genes degs modulation patterns by functional diets are shown in a and 4b for low and high density respectively.

the kegg pathways in stressed fish were evaluated based on the transcripts with absolute fold change of 3 of ctrl group at high density in comparison to ctrl group at low density and is shown in black bars ctrl.table 4gene transcription levels for the seleted kegg pathways related to immune response in intestines of rainbow trout kept at low and high density for 30 days and fed functional diets.fish have been systematically investigated since bonga re- ported a thorough appraisal of how stress response is orchestrated and it is known that stressors jeopardize fish's health under culture .

fish fed functional diets presented better condition regardless density and that functional diets modulate intestinal transcriptome in different manner depending on the stocking density.

the net reduced the height of the water column so fish would be kept at 40 kg m-3 high stocking density hd without diminishing water quality whereas fish from the other 2 tanks were kept at approx- imately 3 kg m-3 low stocking density ld.

4. transcriptome profiles of differential expressed genes from intestines of rainbow trout kept at low density a or at high density b and fed a control ctrl or functional diet supplemented with probiotic prebiotic or the mixture of both pro pre and mix respectively for 30 days.

when fish are held at high density but are fed with probiotics there is a shift on the pattern seen at low density and there are more transcripts being up-regulatedtable 2top 10 regulated transcripts in comparison to control in each group at low density.participating in immune related pathways such as lysosome endocytosis tnf signaling t cell receptor signaling and others.

the average expression of these genes was 5.2 and 10.9 fold-change values respectively indicating a higher magnitude of regulation by high density conditions.however all the genes that were down-regulated after 4 weeks of high density conditions were up-regulated when fish were fed functional diets.

on the other hand several genes were found to be strongly down-regulated by high density but their expression in the fish from pro hd group was reverse reflecting an active mitigatory action and in some cases nulling high density effects.

both possibilities would require confirmation by future studies but the latter could be sustained by the observed increase in total protein found in plasma of fish fed functional diet at low density since this parameter is a known proxy for innate immunity .a main goal of the present work was to understand if the in- testine transcriptomic modulation by functional diets changed under different stocking conditions and excitingly we found that at high density there is a shift on the immunomodulation dynamics.

nevertheless under high stocking density amongst the most upregulated transcript there were perforin precursor 6 times more expressed than in pro group fbpl4 and mhc class i alpha chain what indicates that pre fish group also plays a role in immune stimulation in fish under deleterious conditions.conclusionsfunctional diets based on s. cerevisiae mos or the mix of both modulate intestinal transcriptome after 30 days but in a dynamic manner according to stocking density which is summarized in .

functional diets especially the one with probiotic or the mixture of pre- and probiotic mitigate the molecular immune suppression caused by high stocking density increasing the expression of immune related genes to the same level as control fish at low density or even higher.

juvenile rainbow trout were kept at low ld-3kgm-3 and high density hd- 40 kgm-3 and fed for 30 days functional diets with the prebiotic mannanoligosaccharide pre-0.6 the probiotic saccharomyces cerevisiae pro-0.5 the mixture of both mix and a control diet ctrl.

density had an overwhelming suppressive effect on the immune-related genes but this effect was counteracted by feeding functional diets especially in fish fed with probiotics.

although while under culture fish allegedly receive basal nutritional re- quirements their permanent exposure to stressors such as density handling diminished water quality and the presence of pathogens  impacts intestinal ability to proper digest and absorb nutri- ents as well as to maintain its homeostatic balance .

fish were fed once daily with the commer- cial diet micro50 ewosr coronel chile in proportion to 1.3 of the total biomass for each tank.after acclimatization a net was introduced in 2 tanks from each recirculating system to simulate high stocking density.

