however the development of lesions after infection with e. tenella was delayed 16. in contrast later studies found that bacteria-free chickens had less severe clinical signs and pathological lesions after infection with e. tenella than conventional controls 13120. the bacteria seemed not only totable 2. influence of infection of gnotobiotic chickens with various bacteria and fungi on the course of infection with e. tenella.effect on course of infection with e. tenella compared toin contrast mixed infection with e. acervulina and eimeria praecoxdecreased the viscosity of the ileal ingesta 126.damage to the mucosa influences the intestinal microbiota in several ways all of which seem to favor growth of clostridia.bacterial or fungal identitygram-negative bacterianormal intestinal microbiota referenceinfection with e. acervulina e. necatrix e. maxima e. brunetti or e.tenella increases the permeability of the mucosa leading to leakage of plasma proteins that were traced by radioactively labeled material ore. colicomparable122slightly less severe13bacteroides sp.comparable13gram-positive bacteriafungimucor sp.less severe13candida albicansless severe13combinationss.

additionally h. meleagridis can persistently infect chickens for at least 7 mo 119 and might have some effect on the microbiome during that time.studies in bacteria-free chickens showed that the presence of bacteria is necessary for the development of lesions 106. only chickens with natural intestinal microbiota develop typical lesions after infection with h. meleagridis whereas the parasite causes only mild atypical lesions in gnotobiotic chickens with a single species as intestinal microbiota or with the combination of e. coli and c. perfringens 106. this is in marked contrast to gnotobiotic turkeys in which the presence of eimeria intermedia e. coli or c. perfringens alone allows h. meleagridis to be fully virulent 2328106. besides the interaction between histomonas and bacteria there is a known synergism between e. tenella and h. meleagridis 72.the relationship between h. meleagridis and bacteria is notoriously close because it seems impossible to culture the parasite in vitro without the presence of bacteria.

bacteria can overgrow histomonas and the addition of antibiotics inhibiting bacterial growth can improve growth of histomonas 1221. on the other hand conditioning medium before inoculation with histomonas by growing bacteria in it over night can improve results when the inoculum does not contain many bacteria 4044.it has been claimed that living bacteria can be substituted with bacteria inactivated by high doses of antibiotics but not sterile filtrates of bacterial cultures or autoclaved bacterial cultures 64. in spite of trials by several working groups this method could not be replicated after the study of stepkowski and klimont 111 casting some doubt on the validity of the results.

are extremely common in chickens with one study finding a prevalence of 95 62. usually they are regarded as commensals and a nuisance when trying to isolate other protozoan parasites 44. experimental infection with isolates from chickens quails geese and humans did not cause lesions 52113.not all studies detected correlations between blastocystis and the intestinal bacteria 76 but several investigations suggest interactions between blastocystis and the intestinal bacteria in humans.

most tested bacteria allowed e. tenella to cause lesions comparable to lesions e. tenella caused in birds with normal intestinal microbiota whereas the tested fungi did not table 2.gnotobiotic chickens with lactobacillus acidophilus and s. faecalis or with l. acidophilus alone as intestinal microbiota developed lesions comparable to birds with normal intestinal microbiota after infection with e. brunetti.

parasites that increase the risk for intestinal disease might be targeted instead of bacteria in the prevention or treatment intestinal disorders or parasitosis could be treated by modulating the intestinal microbiota 123. it is also imaginable that some parasites or their products can be used to prevent or treat intestinal disorders similar as in humans 43.the data on parasite-bacteria interactions in chickens that is today available is mostly inconclusive and sometimes contradictory.

this parasite has repeatedly but with low prevalence been detected by molecular biology methods in broiler chickens 11105127128. experimental infection of day-old chickens with c. meleagridis caused temporarily depressed growth 117. lesions caused by c. meleagridis in infected patches of the lower part of the small intestine and the ceca of 2- to 7-day-old chickens showed a slight shortening of villi and an irregular epithelial surface layer 1. in addition to c. meleagridis cryptosporidium parvum which also can infect the ileum of mammals including humans is able to infect chickens 67107.one case report describes infection of the small intestine of a backyard chicken with unidentified cryptosporidia causing diarrhea and reduced general condition.

the method to culture histomonas without bacteria by using hamster livers and zinc iron manganese copper and cobalt salts was also not replicated 65.mixed bacteria derived from the caeca of chickens and turkeys seem to support growth of histomonas better than defined bacteria 40 but during prolonged passaging of the bacterial microbiota the number of bacterial species decreased 70. bacteria isolated from histomonas cultures were among others e. coli escherichia freundii klebsiella pneumoniae stenotrophomonas maltophilia pseudomonas aeruginosa proteus sp.

perfringens in the ceca were eightfold higher in chickens additionally infected with e. tenella compared to chickens not infected with coccidia 24.concerning other bacterial species infection with e. tenella seems to suppress the growth of most species except members of enterobacteriaceae in birds with normal intestinal microbiota table 1. in gnotobiotic chickens with only one bacterial species as intestinal microbiota concurrent infection with e. tenella decreased populations of bacteroides sp.

not much is known about intestinal cryptosporidiosis in chickens but results in mice show that the intestinal microbiota induces some resistance against infection with cryptosporidium parvum and that the innate immune response triggered by infections with cryptosporidia might have an effect on other intestinal microbes.

colonization of the inner surface of the intestines by both pathogens was more intense with a longer and more severe infection and the patent of the parasite period was longer 124.in contrast to the synergy between specific pathogens the presence of normal intestinal bacterial microbiota in immunodeficient mice induced some resistance against experimental infection with c. parvum compared to bacteria-free mice.

understanding the intestinal bacterial microbiota will help in the development of alternative methods for prevention and treatment of intestinal disorders.in cases in which lesions indicate that viruses are the primarily responsible pathogens intestinal disease is referred to as runting stunting syndrome 20 when bacteria seem to be primarily responsible culprits often the expression dysbacteriosis is used 114. parasites on the other hand are regarded as primary pathogens minor nuisances or ignored entirely.

faecalis th c. perfringenscomparable13122by infecting dye into the veins of the birds 265589. the plasma provides growth factors for the proliferation of bacteria like c. perfringens which is auxotrophic for several amino acids 115. a damaged mucosa also leads to impaired digestion leaving an excess of nutrients for the bacteria.

1961.perez v. g. c. m. jacobs j. barnes m. c. jenkins m. s. kuhlenschmidt g. c. fahey c. m. parsons and j. e. pettigrew.

compared to uninfected controls clostridial counts in the ceca of chickens experimentally infected with e. tenella were between 4 and 100 times greater at various time points between 5 and 18 days after the infection 13125126. arakawa and oe 8 found a comparable 100-fold increase 5 days after the infection and a 10000-fold increase 7 days after the infection.

