the hph-1 mouse tissue bh4 increases with age and the adult hph-1 mouse ileal tissue bh4 content is similar to that of wild-type control animals.the partial and age-dependent gtpch1 expressionactivity in the hph-1 mice contributes to the higher tis- sue bh4 content in adult hph-1 mice when compared with early in life.

when compared with wild type control animals adult hph-1 mice have a higher systemic blood pressureand manifest pulmonary hypertension as early as the neonatal period.interestingly the hph-1 mice tissue bh4 content is age-dependent.

openreceived 22 june 2016accepted 29 november 2016published 12 january 2017intestinal microbiota as a tetrahydrobiopterin exogenous source in hph-1 micejaques belik12yulia shifrin1 erland arning3 teodoro bottiglieri3 jingyi pan1 michelle c. daigneault4  emma allen-vercoe4tetrahydrobiopterin bh4 is a cofactor of a number of regulatory enzymes.

although there are no known bh4 exogenous sources the tissue content of this biopterin increases with age in gtpcyclohydrolase 1-deficient hyperphenylalaninemia-1 hph-1 mice.

since certain bacteria are known to generate bh4 we hypothesize that generation of this biopterin by the intestinal microbiota contributes to its tissue increase in hph-1 adult mice.

the goal of this study was to comparatively evaluate hph-1 mice and wild-type c57bl6 controls for the presence of intestinal bh4-producing bacteria.

adult but not newborn wild-type control and hph-1 mouse fecal material contained ptps-2 mrna indicative of the presence of bh4-generating bacteria.

a reduced or absent bh4 endogenous pool results in severe clinical manifestations such as phenylketonuria movement disorders systemic and pulmonary hypertension.the hyperphenylalaninemia-1 hph-1 mouse strain was created via n-ethyl-n-nitrosourea enu mutation and has a partial deficit in gtp cyclohydrolase i ec 3.5.4.16 gtpch1 the first and rate-limiting enzyme responsible for de novo bh4 generation.

gtpch1 activity of adult hph-1 mice is two-fold higher when compared with the newborn counterpart.

we previously reported however that new- born hph-1 mouse lungs have 30-fold lower tissue bh4 content when compared with same age wild-type con- trols.

thus age-related gtpch1 activity changes cannot fully account for the much higher adult hph-1 mice bh4 tissue content.of clinical relevance is the fact that the age-dependent tissue bh4 content pattern may account for certain phenotypic changes that are only present early in life in these mice.

for instance idiopathic hypertrophic pyloric stenosis is present in 1-2 week old hph-1 mice but completely regresses in adult life.

this pathway however cannot account for the bh4 tissue levels in adult hph-1 animals since these animals have reduced bh2 as a substrate for recycling.1physiology  experimental medicine program the hospital for sick children research institute toronto ontario m5g 1x8 canada.

correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to j.b. email figure 1. adult wild type and hph-1 bowel lung brain and aorta bh4 tissue content.

p  0.01 when compared with wild type group by student unpaired t-test.it is therefore possible that hph-1 mice are able to obtain bh4 in adult life via exogenous sources yet this biop- terin is not present in food.the intestinal microbiota has been recently gaining a lot of attention as an enteral source of metabolites that contribute to the endogenous pool.

