both fungicides independently prevented the occurrence of post-stress visceral hypersensitivity compared with vehicle in maternal separated rats a. non-handled rats were not affected by fungicide treatment.the functional relevance of the gut mycobiome was confirmed in post water avoidance fungal depletion and fecal transplantation experiments setup depicted in b. three separate groups of adult maternally separated rats were first subjected to water avoidance stress which caused post-stress visceral hypersensitivity in all groups c. all rats were then treated with a combination of fluconazole and nystatin resulting in amelioration of visceral hypersensitivity.

these exper- iments provide strong evidence for a causal role of fungi in the etiology of visceral hypersensitivity and also suggest that relevant differences exist between the mycobiome of non-handled and maternally separated rats.the fecal mycobiome of maternally separated rats differs from non-handled ratssimilar to the human mycobiome we addressed the possible differences between groups in our rat model by its1-based metabarcoding.

several of these receptors signal through syk-dependent pathways.the use of a specific syk inhibi- tor resulted in reversal of visceral hypersensitivity after water avoidance a. an important syk recruiting c-type lectin receptor is dectin-1 which recognizes the fungal cell wall component particulate b-glucan an interac- tion that can be antagonized by soluble b-glucans.high- dose soluble b-glucans 50 mgkg applied 3 times within a 24-hour timeframe prevented increase in visceral sensitivity after water avoidance stress whilst vehicle and low-dose 20 mgkg soluble b-glucan administration had no effect on hypersensitivity b. next we investigated whether treatment with soluble b-glucans can also reverse visceral hypersensitivity.

corresponding receiver oper- ating characteristic aucs indicated good discriminating quality for these comparisons supplementary figure 3c-d. thus there is altered community composition of the mycobiota in hypersensitive ibs when compared with healthy volunteers and normally sensitive ibs patients.essential role of fungi in a rat model ofstress-induced ibs-like visceral hypersensitivityto further examine the possible role of fungi we used the well-established rat maternal separation model.we confirmed that water avoidance stress at adult age induces visceral hypersensitivity in maternal separated long-evans rats whereas non-handled rats remained normallysensitive see vehicle-treated rats in a. to test the involvement of the mycobiome 2 fungicides fluconazole or nystatin were administered to maternally separated rats for a 3-week period before water avoidance.

colonization of adult germ-free maternally separated mice lead to anxiety-like behavior and behavioral despair whereas colonization of germ-free non-handled mice did not.it is possible that host factors present in maternally separated but absent in non-handled rats will also determine whether colonization with patient mycobiota leads to visceral hypersensitivity.we showed that mycobiome dysbiosis and immune recognition of fungal antigens play an important role in visceral hypersensitivity in rat.

next donorfigure 2. fungi are important for water avoidance wa-induced visceral hypersensitivity of maternal separated ms rats.prevention of water avoidance-induced visceral hypersensitivity in maternal separated rats.

straindifferences may also be relevant in the mycobiome-specific visceral hypersensitivity shown in our repopulation exper- iments but were not addressed in our mycobiome assessment.the reason for mycobiome dysbiosis in maternally separated rats remains elusive at this stage but may relate to changes in dam-pup interactions in the postnatal period andor altered hpa-axis responsiveness that were described in this model.

gastroenterology 20171531026-1039basic and translational--alimentary tractintestinal fungal dysbiosis is associated with visceral hypersensitivity in patients with irritable bowel syndrome and ratssara botschuijver1 guus roeselers2 evgeni levin2 daisy m. jonkers3 olaf welting1 sigrid e. m. heinsbroek1 heleen h. de weerd2 teun boekhout45 matteo fornai16 ad a. masclee3 frank h. j. schuren2 wouter j. de jonge1 jurgen seppen1 and rene m. van den wijngaard11tytgat institute for liver and intestinal research department of gastroenterology and hepatology academic medical center amsterdam the netherlands 2microbiology and systems biology the netherlands organization for applied scientific research tno zeist the netherlands 3division gastroenterology-hepatology department of internal medicine nutrim school for nutrition and translational research in metabolism maastricht university medical center maastricht the netherlands 4westerdijk fungal biodiversity institute utrecht the netherlands 5institute for biodiversity and ecosystems dynamics ibed university of amsterdam amsterdam the netherlands and 6division of pharmacology department of clinical  experimental medicine university of pisa pisa italybackground  aims visceral hypersensitivity is one feature of irritable bowel syndrome ibs.

in rat it was shown that crf receptor antagonism can prevent acute stress-induced mast cell degranulation and resulting visceral hypersensitivity.in contrast post-stress hypersensitivity to distension although it was also mast cell-dependent could not be reversed by crf receptor antagonist.our present data suggest that continued visceral hypersensitivity is driven by cellular recognition of fungal b-glucans that are normally confined to the gut lumen.

we first confirmed a normal visceral sensitivity status of non-handled rats and post water avoidance hypersensitivity in maternally separated rats that was reversed upon fungicide treatment a. fecal pellets of these rats were then used for mycobiome analysis.

our current investigations show that the prolonged post-stress pain response phase 2 depends on the presence and recognition via dectin-1syk of a unique mycobiome and related uptake of particu- late b-glucans.restoring visceral hypersensitivity in fungicide-treated maternally separated rats.

comparison at fungal class level confirmed partial overlap supplementary figure 7. thus our rat model can be used for proof of principle studies where experimental manipu- lations address the possible role of fungi in post-stress visceral hypersensitivity but other fungi may be involved in ibs pathophysiology.fungal recognition via the dectin-1syk signaling pathway is important in post water avoidance visceral hypersensitivitywe next sought to elucidate the mechanism by which fungi could affect the ibs phenotype.

the functional relevance of the gut mycobiome was confirmed in fecal trans- plantation experiments adult maternally separated rats were subjected to water avoidance stress to induce visceral hyper- sensitivity then given fungicide and donor cecum content via oral gavage.

fungi- cide treatment was able to reverse visceral hypersensi- tivity and fecal transplantation studies showed functionally relevant mycobiome differences between maternal separated and non-handled rats.

we observed altered mycobiome composition in patients which led us to assess the role of fungi in the maternal separation model for stress-induced visceral hypersensitivity.

