Moreover using CR biological repeats Figure S2 we obtained similar results adonis P-value  0.02842 anosim P-value  0.052877 and permanova P-value  0.05821 which confirmed the role of hyperactive immunity and the consistency of the results across different generations and over any seasonal fluctuations of microbiota Wong et al.

CR conventionally reared CZ conditionalized ns not significant.In humans Irritable Bowel Disease IBD has been linked with characteristic shifts in the composition of the intestinal microbiota reinforcing the view that IBD results from altered interactions between intestinal microbes and the immune system for review see Hyland et al.

It has been shown that microbiota of littermate mice are more similar to each other than the microbiota of genetically identical mice from different mothers Ley et al.

2005 while in humans the microbiota of siblings is more similar than that of unrelated individuals Turnbaugh et al.

Diet is another environ- mental factor which especially influences the composition of intestinal microbiota as has been shown in germ-free mice colonized by human microbiota and switched from a low-fat to a high-fathigh-sugar diet Turnbaugh et al.

In flies when different Drosophila species feeding in the wild on sour- ces as varied as flower fruit or mushroom were transferred to the same food all individuals obtained the same microbiota Chandler et al.

In addition these authors transferred isogenic flies with identical microbiota from the same food medium to different media and found that dominant bacterial species varied in relation to the food Chandler et al.

For example the cecal microbiota of TLR-5-deficient mice differed from wild- type littermate controls in over a 100 bacterial species Vijay- Kumar et al.

Moreover MyD88-deficient mice harbored a cecal microbiota with higher levels of Rikenellaceae and Porphyromonadaceae Wen et al.

2008 while MyD88 signal- ing in T cells was found to direct IgA-mediated control of microbiota Kubinak et al.

