in conclusion pacap deficiency is accompanied by distinct changes in fecal microbiota composition with virtually absent bifidobacteria as a major hallmark that might be linked to increased susceptibility to disease.keywords intestinal microbiota dynamics pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide pacap bifidobacteria intestinal ecology gut-brain axis predisposition to immunopathology probiotic immunomodulationintroductionpituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide pacap was initially identified as a neuropeptide in the hypothalamus stimulating adenylate cyclase activity in the pituitary gland 1. beyond the nervous system pacap is widely expressed in peripheral organs of the endocrine respiratory reproductive and digestive system as well as in lymphoid organs including immune cells 2. pacap can bind to vpac1 vpac2 and pac1 receptors that are present on innate immune cell subsets such as lym-phocytes and macrophages for instance 3-5. in the con- text of its virtual ubiquitous distribution pacap exerts a broad mode of biological actions with cytoprotective including anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic properties in particular 5 6. hence pacap-deficient pacap-- mice display several morphological biochemical and be- havioral abnormalities that are characterized by decreased fertility but higher mortalitity rates due to compromised respiratory and metabolic functions in additon to hyper- activity decreased anxiety depression-like behavior and abnormal stress responses as reviewed by reglodi and corresponding author markus m. heimesaat charite - university medicine berlin cc5 department of microbiology and hygiene campus benjamin franklin fem garystr.

187-199doi 10.15561886.2017.00021intestinal microbiota changes in mice lacking pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide pacap - bifidobacteria make the differencemarkus m. heimesaat1 gernot reifenberger1 viktoria vicena2 anita illes2 gabriella horvath2 andrea tamas2 balazs d. fulop2 stefan bereswill1 dora reglodi21 charite - universitatsmedizin berlin corporate member of freie universitat berlin humboldt-universitat zu berlin and berlin institute of health department of microbiology and hygiene berlin germany2 department of anatomy mta-pte pacap research team centre for neuroscience university of pecs hungaryreceived july 24 2017 accepted august 14 2017pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypetide pacap constitutes a neuropeptide that is widely distributed in the host exert- ing essential cytoprotective properties whereas pacap-- mice display increased susceptibility to distinct immunopathological conditions.

m. heimesaat et al.colleagues 6. pacap-- mice have been shown to be more vulnerable to harmful stimuli to the central nervous system but also peripheral organs including peripheral nerves kidney and the intestinal tract 6. for instance applying the acute dextran sodium sulfate dss-induced colitis model pacap-- mice displayed 50 higher mor- tality rates as compared to wildtype wt mice 7. in ad- dition pacap-- mice were suffering from more severe chronic dss-induced colitis whereas 60 of diseased animals additionally developed colorectal tumors with aggressive phenotype 8. interestingly naive pacap-- mice did not display histopathological changes in their intestinal mucosa.

in the present study we therefore addressed whether pacap deficiency was associated with qualitative andor quantita- tive differences in the gut microbiota repertoire that in turn may be linked to the phenotypes and increased susceptibil- ity to immunopatholocal conditions observed in pacap gene-deficient mice.

to accomplish this we performed a comprehensive kinetic survey of the intestinal microbiota composition in pacap-- and corresponding wt mice starting 2 weeks postpartum until 18 months of age apply- ing culture-independent molecular techniques.methodsmicepacap gene-deficient pacap-- mice and correspond- ing wt counterparts were raised and maintained in open cages within an experimental semi-barrier accessible only with laboratory coat overshoes caps and sterile gloves under standard conditions 22-24 degc room temperature55 - 15 humidity 12 h light12 dark cycle in the ani- mal facilities of the university of pecs pecs hungary.

two-sided probability p values of0.05 were considered significant.ethics statementall animal experiments were conducted according to the european guidelines for animal welfare 201063eu with approval of the commission for animal experiments ba022000-150242011.resultscomprehensive culture-independent analysis of the fecal microbiota in pacap-- and wt mice over timein order to provide a comprehensive kinetic survey of the main bacterial groups abundant in the intestinal tract of pacap-- and wt mice we collected fecal samples of age- and sex-matched mice starting 2 weeks postpartum until the age of 18 months.

notably due to limited num-european journal of microbiology and immunologymicrobiota changes in pacap-deficient mice189bers in progressively aged and surviving mice lacking the pacap gene results derived from mice aged 15 to 18 months of either genotype were pooled indicated as 15 months age group and subjected to statistical analyses.total eubacterial gene numbers were highest in fecal samples derived from both pacap-- and wt mice at the beginning of the observation period as early as 2 weeks postpartum and higher as compared to any time points ana- lyzed thereafter i.e.

9b.genotype-dependent differences in fecal microbiota of pacap-- and wt mice at defined time points postpartumwhen comparing total eubacterial gene numbers in fecal samples derived from wt and pacap-- mice at defined time points postpartum no differences could be observed n.s.

medians numbers of analyzed animals in parentheses and significance levels p values determined by mann-whitney u test are indicatedduring the past years the commensal microbiota has gained increasing attention concerning their impact in health and disease 24. microbial colonization and host immune development and maturation run in parallel and are essentially involved in regulation of intestinal patho physiology in mice and men 25 26. given the pivotal interactions between the intestinal microbiota and host physiology pertubations of this fine-tuned orchestrated interplay result in increased vulnerability of the host to external harmful stimuli and increased susceptibility to disease not only of the intestinal tract 17 27 in fact phenomena that are shared by pacap gene-deficient mice 6. this prompted us to present a comprehensive kinetic survey of the intestinal microbiota composition and their changes during lifetime of pacap-- and corresponding wt mice for the first time.the microbial colonization of the intestinal tract starts immediately after birth with facultative anaerobic com- mensal species such as enterobacteria enterococci and lactobacilli as the first colonizers 28 as we could con- firm with highest respective fecal loads in the youngest murine cohort i.e.

potential pertubations of the intestinal microbiota in pacap-- mice however have not been addressed so far.

for the first time we performed a comprehensive survey of the intestinal microbiota composition in pacap-- and wildtype wt mice starting 2 weeks postpartum until 18 months of age applying quantitative culture-independent techniques.

fecal enterobacteria and enterococci were lower in pacap-- than wt mice aged 1 month and 6 months respectively.

whereas mouse intestinal bacteroides were slightly higher in pacap-- versus wt mice aged 1 and 6 months this later in life held true for bacteroides prevotella spp.

strikingly health-beneficial bifidobacteria were virtually ab- sent in the intestines of pacap-- mice even when still breastfed.

hence lack of endogeneous pacap resulted in increased susceptibility of the murine host to intestinal inflammation and inflammation-induced colonic cancer development.there is compelling evidence that the host microbiota constitutes a key factor in health and disease of verte- brates.

