specifically there was a much greater difference in microbiome composition between geno-types when hosts were raised in solitary compared with cohoused treatments either within or across genotypes table 2.table 1. predictions from a metacommunity model of the effects of interhost dispersal treatments on the diversity and composition of host-associated microbiomesmicrobiome structuresolitaryseparatedmixedcorrelation with host environmentstrongstrong betweenweakwithin genotypesweaka-diversity within hostlowintermediatehighb-diversity interhosthighintermediatelowg-diversity across hostlowintermediatehigh abundance of dispersal specialistlowhighhighto further investigate whether the effects of host factors were being weakened by dispersal at a finer individual host level we measured the relationship between attributes of each host and the composition of their microbiome within each housing treat- ment.

variation among hosts or b-diversity was significantly greater in solitary hosts than mixed hosts with separated hosts overall more similar to soli- tary than mixed hosts fig.

unfortunately it has been difficult to identify consistent host factors that can explain the large amounts of the variation in microbiome composition across individual hosts despite large-scale sampling efforts 1. at best only a small fraction of variation across hosts can be explained by individual host factors leading to the perception that the rules governing microbiome assembly are idiosyncratic.

we hypothesized that dispersal among heterogeneous hosts would dilute the effects of local host factors and therefore the relationship would be strongest for solitary hosts and weakest for separated and mixed cohoused hosts.

contrary to our initial predictions we observed a homogenization of host microbiomes regardless of whether dispersal was limited to within host geno- types separated or allowed to occur between host genotypes mixed.

understanding how microbiomes contribute to host physiology and how to manipu- late this relationship to promote host health requires a compre- hensive understanding of the mechanistic drivers of microbiome variation across hosts.

interhost dispersal alters microbiome assembly and can overwhelm host innate immunity in an experimental zebrafish modeladam r. burnsa1 elizabeth millera meghna agarwalb annah s. roligb kathryn milligan-myhrec steve seredickdkaren guilleminbe and brendan j. m. bohannanaainstitute of ecology and evolution university of oregon eugene or 97403 binstitute of molecular biology university of oregon eugene or 97403cbiological sciences university of alaska anchorage anchorage ak 99508 dinstitute of neuroscience university of oregon eugene or 97403 and ehumans and the microbiome program canadian institute for advanced research toronto on m5g 1z8 canadaedited by jeffrey i. gordon washington university school of medicine in st. louis st. louis mo and approved september 7 2017 received for review february 15 2017the diverse collections of microorganisms associated with humans and other animals collectively referred to as their microbiome are critical for host health but the mechanisms that govern their assembly are poorly understood.

2a and table 2. we predicted that the effect of host factors such as innate immunity would depend on the degree of interhost dispersal due to the homogenizing ef- fects of exchanging microbial taxa among host types table 1. in agreement with our predictions we observed a strong interaction between housing and genotype.

this reaffirmed our assumption that interhost dispersal primarily altered the degree of filtering of the microbiome by the local host environment rather than changing the host environment itself.

s5a especially when a trade-off was imposed between dispersal rates and host specificity such that species with high dispersal rates would be found in a wider range of host types thereby homogenizing com- munities fig.

variance partitioning on microbiome composition by host factors standard length and il-1b and c3 gene expression was done by canonical redundancy analysis to measure both the unique and shared contributions of each host factor 44. identification of differentially abun- dant taxa was done using a negative binomial distribution model imple- mented in the deseq2 package 45 while identification of predicted gene pathways enriched in these taxa was done by poisson regression followed by a kh2 test of significance.

ecol lett 61109-1122.dallas t presley sj 2014 relative importance of host environment transmission potential and host phylogeny to the structure of parasite metacommunities.

this has made it difficult to iden- tify consistent host factors that explain variation in microbiomes across hosts despite large-scale sampling efforts.

here we show that dispersal of microor- ganisms among hosts can contribute substantially to microbiome variation and is able to overwhelm the effects of individual host factors in an experimental test of ecological theory.

interhost dispersal was strong enough to overwhelm the effects of host factors largely eliminating differences between wild-type and immune-deficient hosts regardless of whether dis- persal occurred within or between genotypes suggesting dis- persal can independently alter the ecology of microbiomes.

