In addition potential therapeutic strategies targeting the intestinal micro-ecosystem in IBD are discussed.Keywords intestinal microbiota host immune response inflammatory bowel disease intestinal barrier function epithelial cellsiNTRODUCTiONInflammatory bowel disease IBD including ulcerative colitis UC and Crohn's disease CD is a chronic and relapsing inflammatory condition of the gastrointestinal GI tract characterized by abdominal pain diarrhea and bloody stools -.

Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2009 10615813-8. doiCouturier-Maillard A Secher T Rehman A Normand S De Arcangelis A Haesler R et al.

Front Microbiol 2016 7185. doiAgus A Denizot J Thevenot J Massier S Denis S Bernalier-Donadille A et al.

Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A2007 10413780-5. doiSwidsinski A Ladhoff A Pernthaler A Swidsinski S Loening-Baucke V Ortner M et al.

doiTursi A Brandimarte G Papa A Giglio A Elisei W Giorgetti GM et al.

ISME J 2007 1403-18. doiDarfeuille-Michaud A Boudeau J Bulois P Neut C Glasser AL Barnich N et al.

J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2004 895352-61. doiBrzozowski B Mazur-Bialy A Pajdo R Kwiecien S Bilski J Zwolinska- Wcislo M et al.

Consistently the dysfunction of the interaction between the intestinal microbiota and host can lead to an excessive inflammatory response and contribute to the initia- tion andor progression of IBD  intestinal bowel syndrome and functional dyspepsia in humans  thus highlighting the critical role of the intestinal microbiota in health and IBD .

Manipulation of the gut microbiota can be achieved by antibiotics fecal microbiota transplantation FMT or probiotics.AntibioticsThe rationale for antibiotic therapy in IBD is based on evidence showing that intestinal microbes including luminal bacteria have an important role in the pathogenesis of IBD   .

Second IBD is a chronic disease associated with various factors such as gut microbiota impairment and genetic andor environmental factors thus the development of IBD is a synergetic effect of multiple factors instead of a single one  .

