The entropy score of patients with rotavirus infection was 0.05 0.02-0.35 which was significantly lower than that of patients with norovirus infection P  0.048 1B.The intestinal microbiota composition at the phylum level of normal controls and patients withmild-to-moderate and severe AGE is shown in The microbiota composition in patients with rotavi- rus or norovirus infection and the associated disease severity classification are shown in .

The Shannon diversity index entropy score of the intestinal microbiota was significantly lower in patients with severe AGE than in normal controls P  0.017 and patients with mild-to-moderate AGE P  0.011.The average severity score of the 5 patients with rotavirus infection was 13.8 range 11-15 which is sig- nificantly higher than that of the 15 patients with norovirus infection mean 10.3 range 8-11 P  0.03.

Finally patients with complicated AGE had greater Pasteurellaceae richness P  0.0071 than patients with AGE without complications.DiscussionThe intestinal microbiota diversity was less in patients with severe viral AGE compared with healthy controls and those with mild-to-moderate AGE suggesting the counterpoise of microbiota being changed or disrupted into some overgrowing bacterial species.

The statistical analyses showed a significantly decreased Shannon diversity index entropy score of the intestinal microbiota in patients with severe AGE compared with normal controls P  0.017 and patients with mild-to-moderate AGE P  0.011.

The data suggest a significant reduction in intestinal microbial diversity in patients with severeAGE particularly those with rotavirus infection.Intestinal microorganisms are related to human health therefore recent research has focused on intestinal micro- flora and its association with human disease.

The microbiota distribution in patients with rotavirus or norovirus infections and their disease severity classifications B.Microbiota of viral AGE patients with and without complications.

The intestinal microbiota score of the 5 patients with rotavirus AGE was significantly lower than that of those with norovirus infection P  0.048.

The entropy score of the intestinal microbiota of the normal controls and patients with mild-to-moderate and severe AGE were 0.56 0.47-0.73 0.7 0.56-0.93 and 0.3 0.05-0.6 respectively 1A.

The relative instability of the intestinal microbial community in children might explain this discrepancy.Another study reported that patients with irritable bowel syndrome had significantly higher counts of Veillonella than controls which appeared to be associated with high acetic acid or propionic acid levels in the bowel.

Of the 20 patients 15 patients had a norovirus infection and 5 had a rotavirus1Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology Chang Gung Children's Hospital Chang Gung University College of Medicine Taoyuan Taiwan.

