rig-i and mda5table 1  interferon-lambda ifn-l interactions with intestinal viruses in vivo and in vitro.intestinal titers and tissue damagerv infection induces ifn-l production in intestinal epithelial cells iecstreatment with exogenous ifn-l prevents rv replication in the intestineew mice lacking ifnlr1 ifnar1 or stat1 in all cells exhibit similar level of viral shedding intestinal titersrhesus strain of rotavirusmice lacking ifnlr1 ifnar1 or stat1 in all cells exhibit increased level of viral shedding intestinal titersito wa human rv infection induces ifn-lexpression in human intestinal enteroidstreatment with exogenous ifn-l inhibits rv replication in enteroidsblocking endogenous ifn-l has no effect on viral productionreovirustype 3 dearingadult mice lacking ifnlr1 in all cells exhibit higher viral shedding of reovirussuckling mice lacking ifnlr1 in all cells exhibit higher viral shedding and tissue titers of reovirus increased tissue damage and severe mortalitymice lacking ifnlr1 exhibit higher reovirus infection in iecswhile mice lacking ifnar1 exhibit higher infection in lamina propria cellstype 1 lang mice lacking ifnlr1 in all cells or only in iecs exhibit higher viral shedding and intestinal titers of reovirusnoroviruscr6 mice lacking ifnlr1 in all cells or only in iecs exhibit higherviral shedding and intestinal titers of persistent murine nov mnovtreatment with recombinant ifn-l prevents and curespersistent mnov infection dependent on iec expression of ifnlr1nov dependence on the commensal microbiome for infection is absent in mice lacking ifnlr1replication of transfected human nov rna is sensitive to ifn-l treatment but does not induce ifn-l expression  enterovirusev71 enterovirus 71 induces ifn-l expression inhuman iec lineparvovirus canine parvovirus is more sensitive toifn-l than type i ifncoronaviruscv777lnct2porcine epidemic diarrhea virus is sensitive to ifn-l when cultured in a porcine iec lineare required for type i ifn production by iecs during rv infec- tion  induction pathways for ifn-l have not been reported.

irf1 plays a unique role in type iii ifn induction however being specifically stimulated by peroxisome- associated mavs in contrast to mitochondrial-associated mavs which better induces type i ifnsintestinal epithelial cells iecs produce type iii ifns with in vivo viral infection -.

the type iii ifns are under positive selection with long-term persistence of duplicate copies suggesting a critical biological role for type iii ifns independent from type i ifns .

mucosal immunol 2013 65985-92. dozhou z hamming oj ank n paludan sr nielsen al hartmann r. type iii interferon ifn induces a type i ifn-like response in a restricted subset of cells through signaling pathways involving both the jak-stat pathway and the mitogen-activated protein kinases.

finally avian influenza virus and newcastle disease virus induce much more robust type iii than type i ifn in a primary chicken iec culture model suggesting a possible role for ifn-l in prevention of intestinal infection by these viruses normally associated with respiratory infections .

these initial findings point to the potential for a broad role for ifn-l in control of many differ- ent enteric viruses but additional studies are clearly needed to determine the breadth and depth of ifn-l-mediated regulation of viral infection in the intestine.ifn-l interactions with other signaling pathwaysinterferon-lambda-mediated antiviral immunity in the intestine against rotavirus edim-rv and mnov does not redundantly overlap with type i ifns while there is redundancy between type i and iii ifns to control influenza sars coronavirus and respiratory syncytial virus in the lung and herpes simplex virus-2 in the genital tract reviewed in ref.

type iii interferons in hepatitis c virus infection.front immunol 2016 7628. dodavidson s mccabe tm crotta s gad hh hessel em beinke s et al.

however leukocytes gener- ate ifn-l in vitro   and intestinal eosinophils  and plasmacytoid dendritic cells pdcs  can produce ifn-l in vivo suggesting the possibility of additional cellular ifn-l contributors.while the antiviral programs induced by type i and type iii ifns exhibit substantial overlap -  a critical difference between the two is the cell types they affect secondary to receptor expression.

mda5 is critical for type i ifn responses to mnov  type iii ifn responses may be similarly regulated.

type i and type iii interferons display different dependency on mitogen-activated protein kinases to mount an antiviral state in the human gut.

gastroenterology 2006 13161887-98. dovoigt ea yin j. kinetic differences and synergistic antiviral effects between type i and type iii interferon signaling indicate pathway independence.

distinct roles of type i and type iii interferons in intestinal immunity to homologous and heterologous rotavirus infections.

type i interferonopathies a novel set of inborn errors of immunity.ann n y acad sci 2011 123891-8. dochen k liu j cao x. regulation of type i interferon signaling in immu- nity and inflammation a comprehensive review.

nod-like receptor nlrp6 is another viral rna sensor that regulates intes- tinal mnov levels and plays a role in induction of type i and iii ifns and isgs in response to infection .

activated intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes have been shown to rapidly stimulate type i and iii ifn receptor-dependent upregulation of isgs in iecs which correspondingly limits mnov infection in vivo .

