This review summarises our current understanding of the development and compos- ition of the human GI microbiota and its impact on gut integrity and host health.Composition and structure of the human GI microbiotaAround a decade ago most knowledge about the adult human gut microbiota stemmed from labour- intensive culture-based methods .

The organisms that can survive in the gut are therefore limited by their phenotypic traits .Current research suggests that diet exerts a large effect on the gut microbiota .

Recently the detailed biochemical and structural characterisation of the extensive degrading apparatus of prom- inent gut species such as B. thetaiotaomicron or Bacteroides ovatus revealed that the recognition and breakdown of complex carbohydrates such as xylan mannan xyloglucan or starch by the human gut microbiota is signifi- cantly more complex than previously suggested -.

Co-operation between gut microbes also allows colonisation by a more diverse set of organisms shaping the gut microbiota community.

dietary amino acids and host mucins origin can influence specific groups of bacteria such as sulphate-reducing bacteria which are residents of the gut microbiota that have been implicated in the aetiology of intestinal disorders such as IBD IBS or colorectal cancer .The distribution of bile acids in the small and large intestine can also affect the bacterial community dynam- ics in the gut as thoroughly reviewed .

Acetate is produced by most gut anaerobes whereas propionate and butyrate are produced by different subsets of gut bacteria following dis- tinct molecular pathways .

For example S. Typhimurium and C. difficile utilise fucose and sialic acid liberated by the gut microbiota and increasing sialic acid levels post-antibiotic treatment favour their expansion within the gut .

Review ArticleIntroduction to the human gut microbiotaElizabeth Thursby and Nathalie JugeThe Gut Health and Food Safety Programme Institute of Food Research Norwich Research Park Norwich NR4 7UA U.K.

In an average life time around 60 tonnes of food pass through the human GI tract along with an abundance of microorganisms from the environment which impose a huge threat on gut integrity .

As a result of the vast number of bacterial cells in the body the host and the microorganisms inhabiting it are often referred to as a 'superorganism' .The microbiota offers many benefits to the host through a range of physiological functions such as strengthening gut integrity or shaping the intestinal epithelium  harvesting energy  protecting against pathogens  and regulating host immunity .

