macro- phages are cytotoxic to pancreatic islets in culture 50 notably through their secretion of no tnf-a il-1b il-6 and prostaglandins 51. similarly kupffer cells are activated by cultured islets and even more so by unpurified islets with the secretion of eicosanoids thromboxane and prostaglandins 52. in addition to activating macrophageskupffer cells isolated islets secrete mcp-1 and il-8 further attracting more macro- phages 17 mcp-1 may be linked to a lower rate of posttransplant insulin independence 17. in vivo macrophage depletion improves graft survival after allo- geneic islet transplantation in lewis rats 51. although kupffer cells are difficult to specifically target they appear to be key players and further animal investiga- tions should be performed in the islet transplantation setting.liver sinusoidal endothelial cellsactivated kupffer cells interact with lsec 51. lsec have a pro-inflammatory action with the expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 icam-1 and platelet-hepatic stellate cellshepatic stellate cells present in the space of disse are mostly quiescent but can contribute to the immune bal- ance.

this process leadsfigure 1 instant blood-mediated inflammatory reaction ibmir time line as summarized from references 8-12. tf tissue factor pmn poly- morphonuclear leukocytes mpo myeloperoxidase nk natural killer min minutes.to ischemiareperfusion injury and altered early graft function.ischemiareperfusion injury is difficult to characterize after islet transplantation because of the lack of easy access to biopsy 29. such lesions are expected both in the islets themselves and in the surrounding liver tissue due to the microembolization of islets in the presinu- soidal veins.rodent especially mouse models of intraportal islet transplantation do not perfectly reflect the human situa- tion because of the higher islet-to-portal vein diameter ratio with a more proximal embolization of rodent islets.

as a further note the increase in ast and alt is lower when patients have been previ- ously transplanted an observation which remains poorly understood but may be related to a better stabil- ity of immunosuppression serum levels 3132.the use of alternating cycles of liver flow interruption and restoration known as ischemia preconditioning protects both the liver and transplanted islets from ischemic lesions 30. this proof of principle opens the way for other clinical interventions known to prevent ischemiareperfusion injury.intraportal islet hypoxianative islets are extremely well oxygenated using 5-15 of the blood flow destined to the whole pancreas with an oxygen tension of about 40 mmhg 33. however in culture conditions large isolated islets suffer from hypoxia with central necrosis and apoptosis 34 fig.

in the setting of intraportal islet trans- plantation kupffer cells are activated through the com- plement pathway due to the hepatic ischemia reperfusion lesions surrounding transplanted islets 47activating factor allowing for the adherence of leuko- cytes the recruitment of lymphocytes and the activation of platelets 53 and with the secretion of il-6 after contact with platelets 54. therefore they probably play an important role in maintaining and exacerbating ibmir.conversely in an inflammatory environment lsec also have an anti-inflammatory effect by secreting il-10 and a pro-angiogenic role by the secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor vegf 53. however the specific role of lsec on intraportally transplanted islets remains to be determined and the current lack of appropriate blocking agents limits the potential for a clinical intervention.figure 4 rattus norvegicus islets at day 5 of culture.

alternative ways of protecting the islets against ibmir are also under study such as pegylation 26 or endothelial cell 27 coating of the islets.

it takes 7-14 days for the islets to develop a functional circulatory system 35-39. even after 3 months the islets chronically keep a low endoge- nous oxygen tension of 5 mmhg 40. these observa- tions do not appear to be solely due to the intraportal location as islet grafts transplanted in better oxygenated sites face similar issues 33.a number of therapeutic options have been testedin animal models either to directly improve islet oxy- genation by hyperoxic housing of animals 41figure 3 human aspartate aminotransferase ast and alanine aminotransferase alt levels after first intraportal islet transplantation geneva results.

the cultured islets have a dark hypoxic core.and more specifically by the anaphylatoxins c3a and c5a expressed during ibmir 1648. once activated kupffer cells can have two modes of action against islets phago- cytosis and the secretion of inflammatory mediators and free radicals 49.until now most investigators have looked at macro- phages and rarely specifically at kupffer cells.

after injury they activate kupffer cells 55 but they also have a strong immunosuppressive activity via the induction of myeloid-derived suppressor cells mdsc 56 and the inhibition of t cells 5758. when co-transplanted with islets they promote immune toler- ance 5659. however these studies were conducted with islets transplanted under the kidney capsule and not in the stellate cell natural hepatic environment.

in clinical islet transplantation patients with t1dm are exposed to this risk due to i the impact of diabetes itself ii a possi- ble transient and moderate increase in portal pressure and iii immunosuppressant side effects.type i diabetes mellitusthe intestinal barrier exhibits increased permeability in patients with clinical t1dm 79. similarly gut perme- ability also increases in diabetic rats this can be reversed by inhibiting zonulin an intestinal tight junc- tion modulator 80. a similar strategy could be tested in preclinical models of intraportal islet transplantation.portal congestionintraportal islet transplantation leads to a transient moderate increase in portal vein pressure which leads to small bowel congestion and increases the risk of lps release.immunosuppressionrapamycin and tacrolimus the most commonly used drugs after islet transplantation increase intestinal per- meability 81 with higher levels of systemic lps 82. this leads to a persistent engagement of the lpstoll- like receptor tlr 4 pathway and a chronic inflamma- tory state.increased release and action of toxic gut productslipopolysaccharide releasecirculating pathogen-associated molecular patterns such as lps stimulate the professional antigen-present- ing cells and are part of the danger model subse- quently promoting allogeneic rejection 83. animal studies have found that the inhibition of the lpstlr4 pathway through a deficiency in myd88 protects germ-free nonobese diabetic nod mice from the onset of autoimmune diabetes after fecal transplantation of commensal microbiota 84. this protection is fur- ther conveyed to wild-type nod mice having receivedtable 2. a summary of selected preclinical knowledge and further steps that can be taken to study the impact of the liver microenvironment in islet transplantation.according to .microbiota from pathogen-free myd88-deficient nod mice 85. islets express tlr4 and the lpstlr4 path- way has been shown to have a negative effect on the survival of transplanted islets 8687. reciprocally tlr4 blockade increases mouse islet allograft survival 8688. while waiting for clinical-grade blocking anti- bodies tlr4 inhibition appears as a promising thera- peutic option in the clinical setting.the immunosuppressive stormorally taken drugs have a first hepatic passage with the highest drug levels found in this organ 89. this cancontribute to islet injury as currently used immunosup- pressive drugs are islet-toxic 90. in this regard per- haps immunosuppressive drugs should be given intravenously during the first few days after islet trans- plantation thus preventing the high hepatic levels.conclusiona major drawback in identifying a potential clinical translation from ongoing animal studies is the fact that the majority of studies performed on rodents include subcapsular kidney islet transplantation.

rapid restoration of vascularity and oxygenation in mouse and human islets transplanted to omentum may contribute to their superior function compared to intrapor-tally transplanted islets.

however despite great pro- gress in isolation and transplantation protocols over the past few years it is still associated with the early loss of some 50-70 of transplanted islets.

the present review focuses on the specifics of the liver microenvironment notably the localized hepatic ischemiareperfusion injury following transplantation the low oxygenation of the portal vein the instant blood-mediated inflammatory reaction the endogenous liver immune system and the gut-liver axis and how they can each have an impact on the transplanted islets.

this observation is linked to the subacutechronic multifactorial impact of alloimmunity recurrent autoimmunity and drug toxicity 1. in addition early events also have a significant impact as suggested by rodent and human positron-emission tomographystudies with a potential loss of up to 50-70 of islets immediately after transplantation 23. while early events are likely also related to mechanical injuries the liver microenvironment is believed to play an impor- tant role and other transplantation sites are currently explored 4 including the immune-privileged eye the striated muscle the omentum 5 and the bone mar- row 6. they each have their own drawbacks notably the risk of vision impairment a decreased efficiency of immunosuppression in the bone marrow 7 a lower oxygen and nutrient supply a location distant from the physiologic release of insulin and the need for invasive surgery.a 2017 the authors.

the present review explores selected key events affecting islets in the liver microenvironment including the instant blood- mediated inflammatory reaction islet and localized liver ischemiareperfusion injury islet hypoxia the activation of endogenous liver immune cells and the impact of the gut-liver axis.

studies were included according to their ability to pro- vide insight into the link between islet transplantation and the selected areas of interest and were grouped by chapters in the text below.the instant blood-mediated inflammatory reaction ibmirinstant blood-mediated inflammatory reaction is the most studied consequence of the intraportal route on the transplanted islets.

