The East Bay had the most unique OTUs 112 while the other populations had few unique OTUs 14-20.

Our results there- fore suggest that the most abundant OTUs were similar across populations but each population also harbored its own charac- teristic community including a set of unique OTUs that were present at low abundances 0.01 the roles of which remain unknown Supplemental Table 3.

Because neither Ensatina nor any other plethodontid salamander from the western USA has been surveyed before it is possible that OTUs that did not match the antifungal database for example the OTUs we identified as unique to individual populations are local mutualists that have not previously been detected.

Abundances of these OTUs were similar across populations Kruskal- Wallis test p  0.6713.DiscussionIn this study we examined variation in skin microbiome com- munity of the terrestrial salamander E. e. xanthoptica a sub- species composed of four genetically and geographically dis- tinct populations .

While all individuals were found in wooded areas the vegetative communities were none- theless different across populations with East Bay individuals found primarily in suburban oak forest South Bay populations in redwood forest and North Bay and Sierra Nevada populations in mixed forests.

To do so we filtered our list of core microbiome OTUs by OTU ID to include only those that matched OTUs in the Woodhams et al.

Anumber of OTUs were unique to either the soil or salamander datasets but most were present in both soil and salamander samples 83 of OTUs identified.abFig.

Two individuals with low core com- munity abundance 0.03 and 0.185 respectively were domi- nated by OTUs of the family Chlamydiaceae.Core OTUs were identified as belonging to the phyla Acidobacteria Actinobacteria Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria.

Bray-Curtis and unweighted UniFrac distances are based on presence- absence of bacterial OTUs in each sample while weighted UniFrac distances incorporate presence-absence as well as abundance of bacterial OTUs in each sample.

In addition OTUs may generally be under negative-frequency-dependent selection such that OTUs reaching high abundance are easily attacked by pathogens.

