supplementintroduction to the yogurt in nutrition initiative at the first symposium of yogurt in mexico the balanced diet initiative1-3armando r tovar4 and guadalupe herrera54department of physiology of nutrition national institute of medical sciences and nutrition salvador zubiran mexico city mexico and 5danoneinstitute mexico city mexicoin some european countries yogurt consumption is common.

adv nutr 20178suppl144s-5s.keywordsfunctional foods obesity prebiotics probiotics dairy yogurt microbiotathe first symposium of yogurt in mexico the balanced diet initiative was held 5 may 2015 in cancun mexico.

presented at the first symposium of yogurt in mexico yogurt in nutrition initiative for a balanced diet held in cancu'n qr mexico 5 may 2015. the supplement coordinator for this supplement was armando r tovar.

e-mail yogurt have been reported by experienced researchers and documented in international journals 3 4.in countries such as mexico where ancestral food habits are based on cereals and legumes the consumption of milk has increased extensively however this trend has not been observed with yogurt 5. in the last 25 y mexico and other latin american countries have been in a nutri- tional transition because of the different factors includ- ing food habits that have triggered overweight and obesity an epidemic health problem.

the goal of this first symposium yogurt in nutrition in mexico the balanced diet initiative is to spread information about the health benefits of yogurt to the nutrition community with the aim of enhancing food habits in mexico and amelioratingthe development of metabolic abnormalities associated with obesity.acknowledgmentsboth authors read and approved the final manuscript.referencesusda agricultural research service.

however such consumption is not common in latin america particularly in mexico partially because of the lack of a cultural tradition of consuming yogurt.

such guidelines are necessary to increase the consumption of dairy products in mexico and other countries.

it was supported by the danone institute in mexico.

the opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors and are not attributable to the sponsors or the publisher editor or editorial board of advances in nutrition.2 the authors report no funding received for this study.3 author disclosures ar tovar is a member of the scientific committee of the danone institute in mexico.

