abbreviations bc blank control group fh high dose of fos group fm medium dose of fos group fl low dose of fos group ih high dose of inulin group im medium dose of inulin group il low dose of inulin group.dramatically increased at the 6th week compared to 0 week in high dose groups.

10table 1. details of experimental design1-3 .time for collecting fecal samplesgroupsubstancesdose g kg-1 day-1week1the number following the abbreviations stands for the time point week 0 and week 6 respectively.2the mice were randomly and equally divided into seven groups n  8 for each group.3abbreviations bc blank control group fh high dose of fos group fm medium dose of fos group fl low dose of fos group ih high dose of inulin group im medium dose of inulin group il low dose of inulin group.the levels of harmful bacteria selectively sabater-molina et al.

abbreviations bc blank control group fh high dose of fos group fm medium dose of fos group fl low dose of fos group ih high dose of inulin group im medium dose of inulin group il low dose of inulin group.bioinformatic analysispaired-end reads 2 x 300 bp produced by library sequenc- ing were merged by using a fast length adjustment of short reads software tool magoc and salzberg .

abbreviations bc blank control group fh high dose of fos group fm medium dose of fos group fl low dose of fos group ih high dose of inulin group im medium dose of inulin group il low dose of inulin group.significant increases in actinobacteria p  0.05 were observed at 6th week compared to 0 week.

each point represents the composition of intestinal microbiota of one mouse n  7. pcoa score plots based on different groups a fh group b fm group c fl group d ih group e im group and f il group respectively.

e. actinobacteria increased significantly from 0.11 to 3.79 p  0.05 in high dose of fos fh group and actinobac- teria increased from 0.06 to 2.01 p  0.05 in high dose of inulin ih group.

compared to higher dose the low dose of fos and inulin could hardly reach the distal colon and then producing only a small amount of beneficial metabolites thereby resulting in little change in bacterial composition and intestine microen- vironment.interestingly although bacteroides vulgatus cannot use fos and inulin its abundance was increased in high dose groups.

the increasing extent was stronger in fos group compared to in- ulin group in high dose groups fig.

additionally lactobacillaceae in high dose groups was dramatically increased whereas no significant change was observed in low dose groups after fos and inulin treatments fig.

significant changes were observed in high dose and middle dose groups.

in this study bifi- dobacteriaceae abundance was significantly increased in high dose and middle dose groups fig.

therefore inulin may potentially improve gut health by stimulating butyrate production.in this study significant change of akkermansia muciniphila was observed in high dose and middle dose groups fig.

however in medium dose groups increasing extent of actinobacteria was higher in inulin group than fos group.change of gut microbial composition at family and genus levelat family level the relative abundances of bacteroidales s24- 7 family ruminococcaceae lactobacillaceae and bifidobacte- riaceae were changed significantly after fos and inulin inter- ventions fig.

f. relative abundance of bac- teroides vulgatus was increased significantly from 1.57 to 5.61 p  0.05 after 6 weeks interventions in fh group and it was in- creased from 0.23 to 4.45 p  0.05 in ih group.

the increasing extent of lactobacillaceae family bifidobacteriaceae family and akker- mansia muciniphila was higher in the fos group than the inulin group fig.

