native plots also had higher shannon diversity and evenness than cheatgrass- and spotted knapweed-invaded plots p  0.05 by anova but not leafy spurge-invaded plots see table s1 in the supplemental material.

similar to the field plots and gradient analyses and  no3 concentrations were significantly greater in leafy spurge plots while ph and respiration rates were greater in spotted knapweed plots .

the low biomass in leafy spurge plots was due to severe herbivory by biocontrol flea beetles at the experimental garden site.there were no differences in prokaryotic community composition in the experimen- tal plots after 1 or 3 years except for one bacterial otu from the chitinophagaceae family within the phylum bacteroidetes which was enriched in spotted knapweed plots after 3 years p  0.05 after bonferroni's correction.discussioninvaders are associated with consistent changes in soil biotic and abiotic properties.

for example leafy spurge plots showed elevated ph and nitrate levels relative to native plots supporting prior work at this same study location  and elsewhere    whereas cheatgrass plots were enriched in phosphate but depleted in most other nutrients relative to native plots.prior studies suggest variable correlations between above and belowground alpha- diversity  .

invasive species cover ranged from 62 to 99 for cheatgrass-invaded plots 39 to 90 for spotted knapweed-invaded plots and 28 to 59 for leafy spurge-invaded plots.

we transplanted all seedlings into plots 2 m by 2 m on 2 or 3 june 2011 using a replicated block design n  5. the invaders were planted in monocultures using 64 seedlings per plot whereas the native plots received seven plants each pseu- doroegneria spicata elymus elymoides kolaria macrantha bouteloua gracilis penstemon strictus linum lewisii erigeron speciosus gaillardia aristata and achillea millefolium and one extra randomly selected native seedling to make the total number the same as in the exotic plots.

finally to assess causation and to better understand the timescales over which soil legacies might develop we sampled from a common garden where replicate plots of monodominant invaders and plots with mixtures of native plants were grown under controlled conditions for 3 years.we propose the following two hypotheses.

plant species richness was reduced in invaded plots relative to the native plots p  0.05 by analysis of variance anova.

leafy spurge- invaded plots were also higher in soil nitrate magnesium and sulfate concentrations than native plots .

cheatgrass-invaded field plots hadfig 1 principal-coordinate analysis pcoa hellinger distance metric of plant community a soil chemistry b 16s rrna gene prokaryotic c and its fungal d community structure colored by the aboveground community type green for native red for cheatgrass blue for spotted knapweed and yellow for leafy spurge for the field plots.

phfig 2 changes in soil physicochemical variables relative to native plant communities across the invasion gradients field plots and experimental exp plots.

pathogens were enriched in cheatgrass-invaded plots relative to native plots p  0.05 by anova.

verrucomicrobia dominant players in soil bacterial communities   were depleted in spotted knapweed-invaded plots  with the genus da101 candidatus udaeobacter copiosus  part of the spartobacteria signifi- cantly enriched in native plots .

the bar plots at the top of the figure show the abundance of each invasive plant species along the linear invasion transects sampled in 2012. scatter plots are pcoas for prokaryotic top row and fungal bottom row communities for the three different gradients left to right see labels.

aboveground biomass was significantly greater in spotted knapweed plots relative to native plots p  0.01 by anova.

