the rest of the resistant isolates were negative in both as iii oxidation phenotypic assays.genotyping and pcr amplification of arsenotrophic genes in cultured isolatesisolates that were as iii resistant and phenotypi- cally as iii oxidizing were further analyzed for their genotype by ardra and rapd.

the cluster analysis and dendrogram generation were carried out by using the phoretix 1d advanced and phoretix 1d database software phoretix international.screening of groundwater arsenotrophs and genotyping groundwater isolates that were as iii tolerant and phenotypically as iii oxidizing by kmno4 screening method sanyal et al.

2011. the maximum likelihood distance method based on tamura 3 parameter was used to construct phylogenetic trees and the validity of the branches was determined with 1000 bootstrap replicates.determination of as tolerance and transformationto determine the level of as iii tolerance each isolate was inoculated in respective msm solid plates with varying concentrations of as iii 1-10 mm.

a total of 39as iii resistant isolates from nine genotypic groups were analyzed for the presence of as iii resistant and oxidizing genetic determinants.

among them only six isolates sn6 sn7 sn16 sn22 sn26 and sn47 revealed the presence of as iii resistance gene arsb of 750 bp figure s3 and none of them were positive for as iii oxidase aioa gene using the primers set aox-f-a2 and aox-r-e2 aioa  670 bp.culture-dependent phylogenetic analysis of 16s rrna and functional genesa total of 39 cultured arsenotrophs from autotrophic and heterotrophic enrichments were initially grouped into nine genotypes.

as iii oxidation potential of two isolates designated as sn27 sn28 belonging to the genera pseudomonas were determined as they were screened positive for as iii oxidation by phenotypic kmno4 and agno3 methods.

all the three of the isolates showed high potential to oxidize as iii to as v. among them the highest as iii oxidation rate was exhibited by sn28 which was 0.143 mmh figure s4.discussionbangladesh is highly vulnerable to as contamina- tion.

each bar represents average data of three repetitive experiments.energy dependent efflux pump arsb responsible for as resistanceone of the main purposes in this research was to correlate bacterial as iii resistance level and bacterial distribution in the environment with extended investi- gation of different types of as iii transporter genes.

two pseudomonas strains sn27 and sn28 that were phe- notypically as iii oxidizers also showed considerable potential of as iii oxidation in growth assay.

among them pseudomonas aeruginosa sn28 showed the highest as iii oxidation potential of 0.143 mmh during their exponential growth phase indicating the bacterium as a promising candidate for as iii bioremediation.summarythe present investigation was an endeavor to ana- lyze arsenotrophic microbiome in groundwater through culture-independent and -dependent approaches along with retrieval of potential as transforming bacteria.

dgge of heterotrophic enrichments supplemented with arsenite as iii for 4 weeks showed the dominance of chryseobacterium flavobacterium and aquabacterium whereas the dominant genera in that of autotrophic enrichments were aeromonas acinetobacter  and pseudomonas.

2000. in parallel as iii supplemented heterotrophic enrichment medium for the growth of as resistance species was also used gihring and banfield 2001 sanyal et al.

2007. amplification of as iii oxidase gene was performed using the degenerate primer set aox-f-a2 and aox- r-e2 sultana et al.

on the basis of ardra and rapd genotyping pattern represen- tative group specific isolates were selected to determine the minimum inhibitory level mic of as iii.

each well of a 96-well microtiter plate was filled with 130 ml sterile autotrophic and heterotrophic broth medium and supplemented with different concentrations of as iii 0-30 mm.

