At high levels TCS could overwhelm TCS-degrading soil microbes.Keywords Triclosan soil substrate-induced respiration microbial biomass greywater sulphataseINTRODUCTIONGreywater is the fraction of wastewater arising from laundry showers and bathroom sinks Gross et al.

Values were expressed as mg CO2 g-1 dry weight soil h-1.Microbial biomassA subsample of soil taken from each microcosm on day 17 was analysed in triplicate 2 g - 0.002 g using the fumigation- extraction method of Vance Brookes and Jenkinson  with modifications suggested by Sparling et al.

On a microbial community level previous studies have indicated that microbial functions such as respiration and enzyme activity and microbial stress levels in soil are affected by the presence of TCS Waller and Kookana  Butler et al.

.Several studies have investigated TCS degradation by soil mi- crobes Ying Yu and Kookana  Xu Wu and Chang  Carr et al.

This situation may occur in circumstances where greywa- ter containing TCS is routinely disposed of to the soil over long periods of time Siggins et al.

Several studies have investigated the risks associated with typical TCS soil contamination levels Ying Yu and Kookana  Xu Wu and Chang  Carr et al.

Analysis of SIR was performed using the MicroResp sys- tem Macaulay Enterprises Ltd Aberdeen Scotland as describedZaayman et al.3by Campbell et al.

Furthermore studies in desorption kinetics between TCS and soil have in- dicated that desorption rates are lower than adsorption rates Agyin-Birikorang Miller and O'Connor  suggesting that TCS has the potential to accumulate as well as to persist in soil.In the environment TCS is resistant to chemical degradation with no decrease in concentration observed for up to 70 days in sterile soil Ying Yu and Kookana .

If the soil microbial community is overwhelmed by high concentrations of TCS soil health may be compromised and the biological degradation mechanism could fail.

Ster- ile glass jars were used for a microcosm series containing 50 g of bulk soil and a final concentration range of 500 1000 1500 2500 5000 or 7500 mg TCS kg-1 dry weight of soil in triplicate.

