unfortunately regarding market vegetables there have been no data about the bioaccessibility of cu fe mn and zn in the colon phase.in this study the pbet method gastric and small intestinal phases combined with shime colon phase was used to thoroughly evaluate the oral bioaccessibility of cu fe mn and zn in the market vegetables of the beijing city proper china.

to our knowledge this was the first ever report of the bioaccessibility of cu fe mn and zn in the market vegetables in the colon which suggested that the previous in vitro studies without simulating the colon phase could have overestimated the bioaccessibility and bioavailability of cu while underestimated those of fe mn and zn.

in addition chemical inhibition could lead to a significant reduction in metal dissolution such as s-amino acids and histidine for cu and nucleic acids and ca for zn.figure 1. bioaccessibility  of cu fe mn and zn in the fresh market vegetables in the gastric small intestinal and colon phases.

data are presented as mean- sd n  3. m1 m2 m3 and m4 markets 1-4. lt lettuce pc pak choi cl cole ll leaf lettuce.table 3. correlation matrix between the bioaccessibility bioaccessible concentrations and total concentrations of cu fe mn and zn in the fresh market vegetables n 48. t total concentrations of the trace metals in the vegetables.

pan et al.found higher edi of cu 2.8 mg kg-1 d-1 from the vegetables grown in contaminated soils.regarding the daily reference intake dri for nutrition recommendations the average contributions of consuming 100 g of a fresh vegetable to meet dri were 5.7 for cu 4.5 for fe 3.7 for mn and 2.3 for zn respectively.

openreceived 11 september 2017accepted 1 december 2017 published xx xx xxxxinvestigation of bioaccessibility of cu fe mn and zn in marketvegetables in the colon using pbet combined with shimenaiyiyin13 xiaolin cai13 xiaochen chen2 huili du13 jiayan xu2 lihong wang4 guoxin sun3 yanshan cui13the in vitro bioaccessibility of trace metals associated with oral ingestion of market vegetables lettuce pak choi cole and leaf lettuce of beijing china was studied.

the oral bioaccessibility of cu fe mn and zn in fresh vegetables was investigated using pbet gastric and small intestinal phases combined with shime colon phase with the detailed procedures described by fu et al.and yin et al.. briefly the fresh vegetable sample 3 g in triplicate was added to a poly- propylene conical centrifuge tube 50 ml with the digest 30 ml at a solidsolution ss ratio of 110 in the gastric and small intestinal phases.

some techniques have been used for studying metal speciation in foods and plants such as sizetable 2. bioaccessible concentrations of cu fe mn and zn in the fresh market vegetables in the gastric small intestinal and colon phases n  3. m1 m2 m3 and m4 markets 1-4. lt lettuce pc pak choi cl cole ll leaf lettuce.

found fe and zn bioaccessibility were 23.6 and 39.2 in lettuce and 52.9 and 36.8 in cole.following the transition from the small intestinal to the colon phase cu bioaccessibility declined for mostof the vegetable samples whereas the bioaccessibility of fe mn and zn showed an increase paired-samples t test p  0.05. the bioaccessible concentrations and bioaccessibility of cu fe mn and zn was 0.02-0.8 mg kg-1 and 1.8-63.7 2.7-9.4 mg kg-1 and 16.7-56.4 0.8-4.3 mg kg-1 and 21.2-71.6 and 1.3-4.9 mg kg-1 and 15.7-69.7 respectively.

some organic acids in the colon digests particularly for the abundant short chain fatty acids could lead to cu adsorption and hence reduced cu dissolution.

in the colon phase cu bioaccessibility significantly declined while the bioaccessibility of fe mn and zn slightly increased which could mainly be attributed to the gut microbiota inhabiting the colon.

the shime consisted of five compartments simulating the stomach small intestine ascending colon transverse colon and descending colon.

the temperature 37 degc and ph 5.6-5.9 6.15-6.4 and 6.7-6.9 in the ascending colon transverse colon and descending colon respectively were automatically maintained.

moisture content of all vegetables exceeded 95.bioaccessibility of metals in the vegetables.

in order to evaluate the potential health impact on the local consumers of beijing city proper via consumption of vegetables we calculated the estimated daily intakes edis of the four trace metals based on their bioaccessible concentrations the consumption of 100 g of vegetables per day and the average body weight of 62 kg for adults.

