1.18-8 mm will be somewhat higher than particlesmay be particularly detrimental for subordinate cows that have access to the feed only after dominant cows had their meal that is subordinate cows may be at risk to suffer from nutrient deficiency devries and von keyserlingk 2005 hosseinkhani et al.

differences in feed sorting behavior might be one explanation for the large individual differences sara-susceptible cows seem to sort to a higher extent against long particles and for fine particles gao and oba 2014. therefore it is im- portant to improve monitoring for early identification of high-risk cows and to enable differentiated feeding management and individual treatment of the respective cows.

furthermore the duration of adapta- tion to a new high-starch diet and the parity of the cows seem to play a role in the requirements for pendf of cows to maintain ruminal ph within physiological ranges thereby preventing sara humer et al.

2012. in general 2 groups of cows are at high risk for sara cows during early lactation and those in the mid-lactation period.

interest- ingly cows that voluntarily consumed larger p  0.05 amounts of the close-up diet during this postpartum period 5.2 vs. 2.4 kg of dmd did not experience ru- minal ph drops and sara conditions despite similar p  0.05 intake of fresh lactation tmr 6.4 vs. 7.7 kg of dmd as well as total dmi 11.5 vs. 10.0 kg in both groups of cows.

2015b feeding cows high-quality forage and lim- ited amounts of concentrate 2 to 3 kgcowd coun- teract the limited feed intake of cows in the last weeks prepartum.

2003. this situation may be exacerbated when using automated milking systems ams because a greater quantity of concentrate is often provided for cows with high or increasing milk yield without considering the effect that the increased concentrate allocation has on pmr intake and ruminal fermentation.in the literature even higher incidences of sarahave been reported based on ruminocentesis in mid- lactating cows nordlund et al.

2017 observed that cows at higher risk of sara based on an index taking into account the area below ph 5.8 related to dmi spent more time eating in the first 8-h period after feeding than lower-risk cows 186 vs. 153 min and less time eating in the third 8-h period 19 vs. 43 min of the day.in herds fed a component-based diet the time sched-ule of feeding should aim to feed smaller proportions of concentrate more frequently nordlund et al.

primiparous cows seem to be at higher risk than multiparous cows krause and oetzel 2006 bramley et al.

2015a observed shorter periods in which reticular ph dropped below6.0 in multiparous cows compared with primiparous cows fed the same lactation diet from d 20 to 80 post- partum.

first multiparous cows have already experienced high-grain diets whereas first-lactation heifers are typically fedfigure 1. absorption of short-chain fatty acids scfa and time of reticular ph below 5.8 in dairy cows adapted to a high grain diet either continuously continuous adapt.

2017 noted that sara-susceptible cows were on average 50 kg lighter than sara-tolerant cows.

2002 most studies point to a higher risk of sara in first-lactation cows than in multiparous cows.

as cows tend to sort small concentrate particles out of the diet an inappropriate distribution of particle sizes enables cows to ingest a higher amount of rfom than planned kleen et al.

in general cows tend to select for the grain component and discriminate against the longer forage components even when the feed is provided as a tmr leonardi and armentano 2003. therefore care must be taken with feeding management and the general dis- tribution of particle size in the tmr as these affect the feasibility of sorting and the feeding behavior of dairy cows.

