Most mutants whose deleted genes are predicted to be involved in peptido- glycan formation DSSA2141 DSSA2142 and DSSA0371 fatty acid biosynthesis DSSA0291 and ABC transport of amino acids DSSA1950 and DSSA1948 showed reduced biofilm formation as determined by the biofilm assay  connecting the absence of SPase in DSSA0351 with reduced biofilm formation .Moreover the same mutants were tested for their auto- aggregation ability using the auto-aggregation assay where a decrease in the turbidity of a standing culture calculated as an increase in aggregation percentage corresponded to an increase in bacterial aggregate formation the first step in the biofilm formation process.

sanguinis contributes to biofilm formation and delineat- ing the underlying mechanism will enhance our under- standing of bacterial biofilm formation and pave the way to effectively prevent and treat many oral infections as well as many systemic infections that originate in the oral cavity.In conclusion through elucidating the role of SSA0351 in biofilm formation in S. sanguinis we promote its candidacy as a promising drug target and help characterize a bacterial model for further studying the genetic matrix that contrib- utes to biofilm structure and function.METHODSBacterial strains media and growth conditionsS.

Cutoff for fold change is 1.5-fold decrease or increase.Cutoff for P-value was 0.001.As predicted by LipoP 1.0 software.Up-regulation of chaperones SSA1998 SSA0226 SSA2007 SSA0141 is consistent with a stressful impact of misfolded proteins on the proteostasis in DSSA0351.To conclude proteomic findings suggested a role for SPase in cell wall integrity through the involvement of SPase tar- gets in fatty acid and peptidoglycan biosynthesis.Comparative analysis of biofilm formation by SPase-target mutantsCollectively all genes in DSSA0351 that displayed reduced mRNA expression as determined by RNA-seq or protein production as quantified by mass spectrometry were fur- ther investigated for their contribution to biofilm formation.

We identified SSA0351- encoded SPase as the main contributor to biofilm formation in S. sanguinis which agrees with the findings in otherGram-positive bacterial models in which SPases were shown to regulate biofilm formation SipW in B. subtilis  and LepB2 in Actinomyces oris .To date no experimental data link S. sanguinis SPases to their predicted substrates.

If secretion is important for the function ofSSA1221 in relation to biofilm formation this would explain why both increased cytoplasmic abundance of SSA1221 in the DSSA0351 mutant and reduced abun- dance due to deletion of the SSA1221 gene results in aber- rant biofilm formation.

Further phenotypic investiga- tion through CLSM imaging will provide a better under- standing of biofilm formation in these mutants.In addition many transcriptionally down-regulated genes SSA2141 and SSA2142 which may be attributed to a deficiency of glutamine the fundamental precursor for argi- nine biosynthesis in S. sanguinis SK36 and down-regulated proteins SSA0371 showed reduced biofilm formation  as well as aggregation percentages .

Finally many down-regulated proteins SSA1938 SSA0570 SSA2107 and SSA2183 could not be knocked out to have their mutants tested for biofilm formation due to their essentiality.In conclusion this study demonstrated that the SPase mutant DSSA0351 but not DSSA0849 caused a decrease in biofilm formation compared to the wild-type as shown via the biofilm assay and CLSM imaging.

Many studies have shown considerable evidence linking biofilm formation in the oral cavity to oral diseaseand consequently systemic infections.

We presume that the ability of S. sanguinis to interfere with the colonization of S. mutans on teeth may be beneficial for oral health .Oral biofilm formation is a demanding task and requires S. sanguinis to harness a network of genes one of which is sig- nal peptidase I SPase a serine membrane-bound endopro- tease that cleaves off a signal peptide from the majority of secreted proteins.

We observed that SSA0351 is essential for biofilm formation in S. sanguinis.

