duodenal bi- opsies were taken 5-10 cm below the major duodenal papillaand rectal samples were harvested from the rectum about 10 cm above the anus according to the procedure described by hou et al.4 rectal and duodenal biopsies were obtained from the 15 pa- tients of the hc group whereas in ibs-d patients duodenal biop- sies were taken for 27 patients and rectal biopsies were taken from all 33 patients.

however our findings suggest that given the similarities seen between the duodenum and rectum of ibs-d patients interventions involving colonic microbiota could be as ef- fective as those for the upper gastrointestinal tract.in conclusion our study explored the relationship of mucosal microbiota in the duodenum and rectum of ibs-d patients as compared with hc and found 24 shared genera were involved in ibs-d. faecalibacterium had the greatest frequency in both the duodenum and rectum of ibs-d patients and was associated with clinical symptoms of ibs-d. thus faecalibacterium could be a promising therapeutic target for ibs-d. moreover we demon- strated two relationship patterns between small and large intestine mucosal microbiota which suggests that selection of methods to manipulate gut microbiota would depend on the relationship of the microbiota that are altered between the small and large intestine in a disease setting.

these findings indicate that the incidence of shared microbiota in the duodenum and rectum of ibs-d patients is higher compared with that for the hc group.ibs-d patients showed greater numbers of shared otus and genera between duodenal and rectal mu- cosal microbiota compared with hc.

ac relative abundance of decreased genera in duodenal and rectal biopsies in the healthy control hc and ibs-d patients red color represents hc and green color represents ibs-d. bd relative abundance of increased genera in duodenal andrectal biopsies in the hc and ibs-d patients red color represents hc and green color represents ibs-d all p value  0.05. color figure can be viewed at figure 4 relative abundance of shared genera that changed dramatically between the healthy control hc and diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome ibs-d in the duodenal and rectal biopsies.

a relative abundance of shared genera in duodenal biopsies in the hc and ibs-d patients red color represents hc and green color represents ibs-d. b relative abundance of shared genera in rectal biopsies in the hc and ibs-d patients red color represents hc and green color represents ibs-d. color figure can be viewed at table 2 association between clinical parameters and abundance of ge- nus spearman rho values are indicated only when the p-value was be- low 0.05faecalibacteriumduodenum-0.42-----0.40rectum in ibs-d pathology.

of the 24 genera that showed dramatic changes in the duodenum and rectum of ibs-d patients relative to hc many had significant negative or positive correlations with the severity of ibs-d clinical symptoms.our data showed that in hc the duodenal mucosal microbiota composition significantly differed from that of the rectum which was consistent with previously demonstrated spatial heterogeneity of human mucosal-associated microbiota in the large intestine.3 however the finding that ibs-d patients had greater similarity compared with hc in microbiota in the duodenum and rectum im- plied not only a loss of microbial variety but also the presence of dysbiosis of microbiota in these regions.

here we inves- tigated the characteristics of mucosal microbiota shared by the duodenum and rectum in ibs-d patients.methods we collected duodenal and rectal mucosal samples from 33 adult ibs-d patients and 15 healthy control hc subjects.

intestinal microbiota can influence epithelial barrier function and intestinal permeability as well as immune cells and the central and enteric nervous systems.19 the overlap of dysbiosis and dysfunction in the small and large intestine of ibs patients further implies that microbiota shared between the small and large intestines are involved in ibs.although many studies concerning gut microbiota relied on stool samples for convenient assessments differences between mucosal and luminal fecal microbial composition are becoming increasingly apparent.8 mucosal-associated microbiota are in close association with host cells and thus can more easily interact with host epithelial cells immune cells and the enteric nervous system.

our study used high throughput sequencing of duodenal and rectal biopsy samples from ibs-d patients and healthy controls to analyze the characteristics of mucosal- associated microbiota shared between the duodenum and rectum.methodsstudy subjects.

healthy adult volunteers and ibs-d patients aged between 20 and 60 years were recruited at wuhan union hospital.

ibs-d patients were diagnosed by a gastroenterologist based on rome iii criteria and clinical symptoms and history.

clinical data for ibs-d patients including severity of symptoms such as abdominal pain and bloating frequency of excretion and bristol stool form bsf20 were collected from completed question- naires.

a value of p  0.05 was con- sidered as significant.resultsclinical features of ibs patients and healthy sub- jects.

a total of 15 healthy volunteers hc and 33 ibs-d pa- tients were recruited for this study and detailed clinical and demographic information was collected table 1. the two groups showed no differences in terms of age and bmi p  0.05.ibs-d patients showed similar microbiota signa- tures in the duodenum and rectum.

whereas the microbial communities in the duodenum and rectum of ibs-d patients were more similar anosim r  0.023 p  0.072 permanovatable 1 clinical and demographic features of all study participantshealthy controlsibs patientsgender mf781122age years28 24-5735 19-60bmi21.3 2023.621.42023.8clinical parameterno1511rectum fig.

