thus since gi neural cells play a role in gi tract motility glp-1 may modify gi motility by stimulating neural cells in the gi wall.to examine the role of the gut microbiota in the glp-1 glp-1r axis we used gf mice with ft. the number of glp-1-positive cells did not differ between gf mice with ft and age-matched gf mice without ft. however wichmann et al.

we believe that this article is very timely and suggestive work.glp-1 glp-1 receptor microbiota motility gastrointestinal tractthe gut microbiota is known to interact with not only the immune but also the neuroendocrine system involved in host physiology in the gastrointestinal gi tract 9 13 25 30. gut hormones also play a pivotal role in the neuroendocrine system in gi tissues and indeed affect the secretion metabolism and motility of the gi tract 6 20. furthermore since the gut microbiota possibly modifies the attributes of gut hormones those effects may play pivotal roles in the fine-tuning of gi motility however this hypothesis has not been fully tested.glucagon-like peptide 1 glp-1 an incretin hormone pro- duced by intestinal endocrine cells 7 regulates glucose ho- meostasis by stimulating the secretion of insulin from pancre- atic f3-cells 10. interestingly glp-1 plays important roles in metabolism as well as gi motility and in fact it has been suggested that glp-1 may suppress gi motility 1 11 21. on the other hand the absorption of digested food is largely affected by the state of gi motility 29. in this regard glp-1 may be an important gut hormone for mediating the effect of the gut microbiota on not only metabolism but also gi motility.

oe age-matched gf mice without fecal transplantation ft 10 wk old e gf mice at 4 wk after ft.number of-positive cells in the colonic mucosacdr  0.717p  0.005number ofr-positive cells in the gastric wallnumber ofr-positive cells in the small intestinal wallnumber ofr-positive cells in the colonic wallgut microbiota for glp-1glp-1r and gi motilityg373intestine in vitro.

similar findings were obtained in the small intestine and colon from 28 days after ft. the number of glp-1r-positive cells in the gi wall of gf mice with ft was significantly decreased relative to the age-matched gf control mice suggesting that the ft treatment had led to a reduction of glp-1r-positive neuron cells throughout the gi wall fig.

b-d immunostaining using anti- glp-1r antibody b the supernatant after the absorption of anti-glp-1r anti- body c and no anti-glp-1r antibody d. immunoreactivity for glp-1r is observed in the neural cells in the muscular layer in the colon b but not in cells when immunostained using the supernatant c or no glp-1r antibody d.treatment has a suppressive effect on the number of myenteric neural cells in the gi wall of gf mice.

b changes in the number of glp-1-positive cells in the colon of gf mice without open bars or with filled bars ft gf and age-matched gf mice at 6 and 10 wk of age respectively.

b changes in the number of glp-1r-positive cells in the gastrointestinal tract of gf mice without open bars or with filled bars ft gf and age-matched gf mice at 6 and 10 wk of age respectively.

c number of s100- and glp-1r-positive cells in the gastrointestinal tract of gf mice without or with fecal transplantation ft. open bars age-matched gf mice without ft filled bars gf mice 28 days after ft. all results are expressed as means - se of 3 samples.

glp-1r-positive cells throughout the gi wall were significantly fewer in gf mice with ft than in gf mice without gut microbiota reconstitution.

gitt was significantly shorter in gf mice with ft than in control gf mice without ft and correlated with the number of glp-1r-positive cells throughout the gi wall.

3b.behavior of myenteric neural cells expressing glp-1r in gf mice with ft. we next examined whether ft treatment affects the number of myenteric neural cells in the gi wall.

these findings may suggest that ft treatment plays a role not only in reduction of the neural cell population but also in the expression of glp-1r in the neural cells in the gi wall of gf mice.gastrointestinal transit time and its relation to glp-1 or glp-1r expression in gf mice with fecal transplantation.

significantly smaller than age-matched gf mice without ft p  0.05.in summary we have clarified that glp-1r is expressed in myenteric neural cells throughout the gi tract and that its expression is suppressed in gf mice after transplantation of gut microbiota.

subsequently we as well as other investigators 1 2 4 26 27 have demonstrated that glp-1r is expressed in neural cells between the circular and longitu- dinal muscle layers throughout the gi tract suggesting that glp-1 may act on gi neural cells.

ft treatment significantly decreased the number of glp-1r-positive neural cells throughout the gi tract in gf mice suggesting that the gut microbiota may inhibitg370gut microbiota for glp-1glp-1r and gi motilitystomachsmall intestinecolonstomachp  0.05small intestinep  0.05colonp  0.05gf 3 7 28 gfage-matcheddays after ftgf 3 7 28 gfage-matcheddays after ftgf 3 7 28 gfage-matcheddays after ftfig.

