Potential families were visited and educated on the proposed study before the enrollment visit and the study nurse or lab technologist obtained written informed consent from the parentsguardians plus witness upon confirmation that the child met the inclusion and exclusion criteria.

Inclusion criteria 1 born at term with birth weight 2500 g 2 no apparent congenital anomalies 3 immunization up to date 4 normal family social situation such that they were able to comply with study requirements 5 agree to weekly visits for MNP distribution and data collection as well as stool urine and blood collections6 hemoglobin Hb  10 gdL 7 breastfeeding at enrollment and intent to continue during the study period and 8 negative for malaria parasites based on blood smear.

Ltd. Mumbai India to both the study subjects and the study field staff.

These studies although differing from our study by the environment iron dosage and subjects' age all demonstrated the potential pathogen-promoting nature of elevated iron in the human gut in low-resource settings.The four predominant phyla observed in this study were comparable to previous studies conducted by our group  and others .

In our earlier study in Denver high iron intake was associated with lower Clostridium group XIVa which includes clostridial species that are butyrate-producing and immunomodulatory .Although our study found that iron supplementation decreased potentially beneficial strains e.g.

An earlier study  conducted in young infants 0-3 months found that infants consuming iron-fortified cow's milk 5 mgL had lower counts of bifidobacteria and higher counts of Escherichia coli compared with infants consuming non-fortified cow's milk or breastmilk.

Our research group conducted a controlled feeding study in older U.S. breastfed infants and found a greater decrease of the genus Bifidobacterium over time in infants consuming iron-fortified cereal from 5-9 months of age .

These studies although limited and heterogeneous in design location and age group suggest the urgent need to further evaluate the effects of iron supplementation on the gut microbiome especially during infancy when early microbiota colonization is taking place and in non-anemic infants who may not need iron supplementation and are thus more susceptible to the potential adverse effects of iron.The main objective of this study was to assess the effects of iron fortification in the form of MNP on the gut microbiome and inflammation status in six-month-old non- or mildly-anemic Kenyan infants.

Systemic and intestinal inflammation markers were hypothesized to also increase over time.Materials and MethodsStudy DesignThis study was conducted in rural Kenya approximately 150 km from Eldoret.

The registry administrators provided a list of 45 consecutive infants at this age from their registers based on the study inclusion criteria see below.

