had demonstrated combination of computed tomography findings suggestive of mycobacterium avium complex mac along with positive bronchial washings for mac and biopsies revealing granulomas indicated invasive disease rather than colonization in non cf patients 27. it is recommended that in cf patients who have positive cultures for ntm with clinical deterioration including pulmonary function and have excluded other conditions should be evaluated for ntm treatment 28-31. bronchoscopy with bal and transbronchial biopsies can be considered if there is a strong indication for evaluating and treating ntm.role of bronchoscopy in noninfectious causes in cfalthough there were studies to show the usefulness of bronchoscopy with endobronchial biopsies help to understand airway remodeling and to decelerate the progressive airway damage in children hemoptysis has been noted more frequently in older cf patients with progressive lung disease associated with pseudomonas aeruginosa burkholderia cepacia and staphylococcus aureus along with persistent airway inflammation and angiogenesis of bronchial arteries which are bordering to the airways 32-34.endobronchial biopsies have been useful in understanding airway remodeling and inflammatory changes in early cf disease including in those who are asymptomatic 33. despite the detailed understanding of airway remodelingsampling has been limited to mostly in the proximal larger airways smaller areas sampled and lesser thickness of the airways as supposed to full thickness of the airways 34. airway inflammation has been demonstrated in infants especially in those with negative cultures for the common bacterial and viral pathogens.

other changes noted include increase in airway smooth muscle cells which could play a role in airway hyper-responsiveness and destruction with fibrotic changes to cartilage which can lead to tracheomalacia and bronchomalacia seen in advanced cf disease 34-38. reticular basement membrane thickening which has been demonstrated as part of airway remodeling in cf safe guards the airways by limiting proteolytic enzymes released from neutrophilic infiltration to the subepithelial space thus slowing down airway narrowing.

though bronchoscopy has been used in conjunction with other modalities such as computed tomography and sputum induction providing a better understanding of the progression of the disease it still remains valuable in the diagnosis and management of cf.keywords bronchoscopy microbiology airway diseases progression of diseasesubmitted may 05 2017. accepted for publication jun 21 2017. doi 10.21037jtd.2017.06.143view this article at introductioncystic fibrosis cf is an autosomal recessive disease causing mutational defects of the cf transmembrane conductance regulator cftr protein leading to multi organ involvement such as bronchiectasis chronic sinusitis pancreatic insufficiency hepatobiliary disease cf related diabetes and osteoporosis.

this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 7. the median predicted survival of cf patients is 41.6 years based on the cf patient registry in 2015 1. the mutation in the cftr protein causes dysregulation of the chloride movement through the channel resulting in the production of thick viscous mucus in the regions with the most cftr expression 2. this buildup of thick mucus causes obstruction and inflammation leading to defective mucociliary clearance chronic infection and eventually organ failure 3.progressive respiratory disease remains the leading causeof morbidity and mortality in cf 2. the vicious cycle of mucus plugging vigorous neutrophilic inflammation with the release of interleukin il-8 neutrophil elastase have led to bronchiectasis by causing destruction of the airway tissue 4. with the profound neutrophilic inflammation there is a release of deoxyribonucleic acid dna that is broken down in the infected mucus increasing the viscosity of the secretions 5. over time with small and medium airway obstruction and recurrent infections the lung parenchyma undergoes atelectasis collapse and pneumonia.

it is more common in adults with cf with prevalence of 69. some of the factors that have been associated with tracheomalacia includei severe cftr function leading to severe reduction in fev1 developing secondary tracheomalacia due to airway infection ii abnormalities of the tracheal development predisposing to collapse iii combination of congenitaljournal of thoracic disease vol 9 suppl 10 september 2017s1143acknowledgementsnone.footnoteconflicts of interest the author has no conflicts of interest todeclare.referencesfigure 1 computed tomography axial image showing progressiveright lung atelectasis due to cystic fibrosis.tracheomalacia with airway obstruction and infection.

by understanding the different types of mutations this helps to understand the disease presentation and design newer therapies specific for each mutation class 2.management of cf lung disease includes airway clearance with beta agonist bronchodilators mucolytic agents such as inhaled dornase alpha and hypertonic saline inhaled antibiotics such as tobramycin aztreonam and colistimethate in combination with chest physiotherapy and other percussive and oscillatory devices 3. cftr modulators improve the function of the dysfunctional cftr protein based on the mutation.

cartilaginous airway wall dimensions and airway resistance in cystic fibrosis lungs.

it has also been suggested that pulmonary exacerbations may be due to spread of infection from other areas of affected airways to the unaffected airways instead of increased burden of the microbiome.the microbiome identified in the lower airways is distinct from upper airway microbiome 11. studies have shown various stages of disease in different regions of cf lungs as well as several pathogens distributed disproportionately throughout the lung 1112. combination of culture based studies and culture independent molecular studies have shown increased diversity and increased prevalence of anaerobic bacteria.

with the increasing identification of uncommon bacteria its relation to pulmonary exacerbations and decline in fev1 still remains in question.table 2 demonstrates the most common pathogens seen in cf.utility of bronchoscopy in diagnosis and culture guided therapy in cfstudies have shown sputum obtained from stable non cf bronchiectasis individuals may be useful as inexpensive andjournal of thoracic disease vol 9 suppl 10 september 2017s1141table 2 different organisms seen in cystic fibrosisleast invasive method to evaluate airway colonization of pathogens.

induced sputum has been shown a preferred technique in evaluating airway colonization of pathogens 13.in cf expectorated sputum is useful for identifying pathogens for the management of pulmonary disease especially in individuals who are able to expectorate.

with the onset of newborn screening initiating treatments both for prophylaxis and disease management optimizing nutritional support and developing therapies targeting cf transmembrane conductance regulator protein this has significantly changed the face of managing this devastating disease.

studies have shown patients with non-tuberculous mycobacteria were older have mild pulmonary disease and often with staphylococcus aureus in the sputum cultures 21-23. isolating ntm is a challenge and often question whether the presence of ntm pose as a colonizer or cause for infection in the lungs 24. the combination of clinical evidence radiological findings and positive cultures including sputum and bronchial washings with non-tuberculous mycobacteria is essential for the diagnosis of non-tuberculous mycobacterial lung disease but it becomes a challenge in cf where identical symptoms have been associated with other pathogens 1025. tomashefski et al.

as the disease progresses the reticular basement membranes start to thin causing further inflammation of the airways 33. vascular changes causing increased blood flow has been seen which is thought to be related to endothelial dysfunction potentiating vasoconstrictor pathways 3439.lobar atelectasis has been reported up to 11 of cf patients 4041. this is due various factors such as progression of disease allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis factors that would further alter the viscosity of sputum such as hyperglycemia and hemoptysis.

bronchoscopy and related procedures such as bronchoalveolar lavage bal transbronchial biopsies and protected brush sampling have been looked at in the management of cf as patients with cf continue to live longer with the help of newer therapies the microbiome in the lung becomes less diverse along with increased occurrences for noninfectious causes of airway diseases.

non-tuberculous mycobacteria ntm are increasingly prevalent in cf with the most frequently identified species include mycobacterium avium complex and mycobacterium abscessus 10.sputum cultures obtained quarterly from cf patients may not reveal the extensive microbiota in the airway as there are regional differences and diversity of the microbiota.

