lower-affinity peptidomes as would be created by the risk variant of erap1 enhance lysis by nk cells 62. thus altered peptide presentation by erap1 and hla-b51 may interact with nk cells to lead to pathogenesis.nk cell interactions with hla-b51 remain an attractive proposition for explaining bd pathogenesis however fur- ther research needs to be conducted into 'inhibitory' nk receptors that appear to actually play a more regulatory role.misfolding of hla proteins in bd pathogenesisalternative pathogenic hypotheses linking hla-b51 with bd might include effects on the gut microbiome or of hla-b51 misfolding both mechanisms suggested for hla-b27 and as 8. thus inflammation in bd may be associated directly with the identity of hla-b51 as a 'slow-folding' mhc molecule during peptide binding 63. misfolding leads to er stress and an unfolded protein response leading to inflammation.

a clearer understanding of all the functions of hla-b51 is thus needed in order to improve development of potential ther- apeutics based on the rational targeting of responsible mechanisms.genetic links between hla-b51 and bdthe link between carriage of hla-b51 and bd develop- ment was first highlighted in 1973 with a higher frequency of what was then known as hl-a5 observed in patients n 5 21 compared to controls n 5 78 9. many studies have been performed since then creating a large body of evidence linking hla-b51 with susceptibility for bd.

two major peptide sub- sets were identified with either pro or ala at position 2 total frequency 893 pro  ala ratio 19 and impor- tantly both subsets differed drastically in the susceptibility of their position 1 residues to erap-1 29. these suscepti- bilities were based on results of experiments by hearn et al.30 looking at erap1 degradation of peptides with differ- ent n-terminal amino acids.the risk erap-1 allotype with p.asp575asn and p.arg725gln snps confers lower enzymatic activity and alters the balance between these two peptide subsets with lower-affinity ala2 peptides being presented more on hla-b51 29. in addition to these findings as and pso- riasis are also associated with erap-1 in epistasis with their susceptibility mhc class i alleles and may share similar pathogenesis mechanisms 3132. together these findings provide strong evidence that altered antigen presentation by hla-b51 plays a role in the pathogenesis of bd.moreover in a recent study an erap1 protein allotype called hap10 was associated with bd risk in hla-b51 car- riers following the recessive model 33. this haplotype carried five non-ancestral alleles including p.asp575asn and p.arg725gln and it was found previously to have lower peptide-trimming activity 2934. hla-b51 car- riers homozygous for the haplotype had an 11-foldincreased disease odds compared with individuals who had none of the genetic risk factors.

arthritis rheum 2010 622806-12.hedayatfar a. behcet's disease autoimmune or autoinflamma- tory j ophthalmic vis res 2013 8291-3.yazici h fresko i. behcet's disease and other autoinflammatory conditions what's in a name clin exp rheumatol 2005 23 s1-2.gul a. pathogenesis of behcet's disease autoinflammatory fea- tures and beyond.

is behcet's disease a 'class 1-opathy' the role of hla-b51 in the pathogenesis of behcet's diseasem.

bownessnuffield department of orthopaedics rheumatology and musculoskeletal sciences university of oxford oxford ukaccepted for publication 7 september 2017 correspondence m. giza queen's college high street oxford ox1 4aw uk.e-mail summarythe association between carriage of the human leucocyte antigen hla-b51 allele and development of behcet's disease bd has been known since the early 1970s but the exact mechanisms responsible for its role in pathogenesis remain much-debated.

ultimately greater understanding of hla-b51's unique role in bd will probably lead to improved development of therapeutic strategies.keywords antigen presentationprocessing autoimmunity autoinflamma- tory diseaseintroductionbehcet's disease bd is a rare chronic multi-system inflam- matory disorder characterized by recurrent relapsing oral and genital ulcers ocular involvement skin lesions arthritis and vasculitis 1. bd typically develops clinically in the third and fourth decades of age with earlier age of onset being correlated with higher severity and mortality 2.human leucocyte antigens hlas are proteins encoded by genes that make up the human major histocompatibility complex mhc.

recent work analysing the peptidome of hla-b51 suggests that altered peptide presentation by hla-b51 is vital to the disease process.

striped colour coding indicates more than one reported study of different prevalence rates.meta-analysis of 80 studies performed in a variety of differ- ent populations suggests that carriage of hla-b51 or hla-b5 the group of antigens of which b51 is a subcate- gory confers an odds ratio or of 578 for developing bd and 590 when considering only hla-b51 without a significant modifying effect of ethnicity 10. the possibil- ity that this relationship represents linkage disequilibrium ld with a nearby and truly causal bd gene is unlikely for a number of reasons.

first the likelihood that a genetic association takes account of confounding diminishes with the strength of the association and an unbiased or of greater than 3-5 is deemed to be strongly in favour of a causal variant 11. secondly nearby genetic variants that are in strong ld with hla-b51 have been shown to be associated much less strongly with bd than hla-b51 itself.

finally hla-b51 is itself a plausible contributor to disease with mhc class i mole- cules linked to a variety of diseases 7.further evidence for the link between hla-b51 and bd comes via its geographical epidemiology.

additionally residues 67 and 116 are hypothesized to be critical anchor residues defining the peptide specific- ity of mhc i antigen binding via interactions with peptide positions p2 and px p9 respectively 2324. moreover hla-b residue 67 is one of two amino acids that differ between hla-b51 and hla-b52 a near-identical hla- b protein which confers no significant effect on bd risk 13. this seems strong evidence to suggest that altered peptide presentation utilizing these amino acids may explain at least in part the link between hla-b51 and disease pathogenesis.a recent genomewide association study showed a link between bd risk and polymorphisms in endoplasmic retic- ulum aminopeptidase 1 erap1 26. erap1 functions in the endoplasmic reticulum er to trim the aminoterminal residues of precursor peptides to an optimal length for loading onto class i mhc molecules 2728. two snps in erap1 encoding p.asp575asn and p.arg725gln con- ferred a risk for bd preferentially in hla-b51-positive individuals from a large turkish sample.

therefore despite being the intuitive explanation there is no convincing case for hla-b51 cytotoxic cd81 t cells as being the causa- tive agent in bd lesions and ulcers.possible link between hla-b51 and nk cellsabnormal peptide presentation may instead lead to bd pathogenesis via interactions with nk cells 54. hla- b51 is known to react with an inhibitory killer immunoglobulin-like receptor kir receptor kir3dl found on nk cells via its bw4 epitope 55. the interactionbetween the two leads to regulation of nk cell activity.

hla-b51 is one of many mhc class i variant alleles.for many years the human leucocyte antigen hla b51 has been linked to the development of behcet's diseasebd.

1. potential role of human leucocyte antigen hla-b51 in behcet's disease bd pathogenesis.inflammation in autoinflammatory disorders in auto- immune diseases the activated adaptive immune system is responsible 6. assessing the evidence it seems that bd shares more common features with autoinflammatory dis- eases.

