EditorialFor reprint orders please contact Is gut microbiome a predictive marker to response to immune checkpoint inhibitorsKhalil Saleh1 Nadine Khalife-saleh1  Hampig Raphael Kourie11Oncology department Faculty of medicine Saint Joseph University Beirut LebanonAuthor for correspondence First draft submitted 15 July 2017 Accepted for publication 7 August 2017 Published online 15 Septem-ber 2017Keywords gut microbiome  immune checkpoint inhibitors  predictive markerImmune checkpoint inhibitors ICI are changing the treatment of solid and hematologic malignancies and becoming an integral part of the management of cancer patients.

It can be attributed to a bias in the reconstitution of microbiota in mice using human fecal microbiota transplantation 57.Recent report evaluating the microbiome in patients treated with PD-1 inhibitors in metastatic melanoma showed that diversity and composition of gut microbiome was significantly different in patients responding to anti-PD-1 compared with those who do not respond.

Recently emerging data show that gut microbiome might affect the efficacy of ICI making it a potential biomarker of response.

It was first evaluated in murine models and preclinical studies showed the contribution of gut microbiome in the efficacy of ICI.

Furthermore the composition of gut microbiome was different between the two groups Clostridiales were more abundant in responders however Bacteroidales were more frequent in nonresponders 8.

Antibiotics and the human gut microbiome dysbioses and accumulation of resistances.

Association of the diversity and composition of the gut microbiome with responses and survival PFS in metastatic melanoma MM patients pts on anti-PD-1 therapy.

In addition the manipulation of the microbiome by broad-spectrum antibiotics leads to increased susceptibility to infections accumulation of antibiotic resistancesderegulated metabolism and compromised immune homeostasis 4.Recent reports focused on the role of microbiome in the response to ICI.

In addition the use of broad- spectrum antibiotics such as colistin and imipenem to eliminate gut microbiata altered the antitumor effect of CTLA-4 inhibitors.

In addition diversity and abundance of specific bacteria were associated with higher PFS in response to PD-1 inhibitors p  0.009 and p  0.007 respectively 8.Since broad-spectrum antibiotics can affect 30 of gut microbiota their effect on ICI efficacy was retrospectively evaluated in patients having advanced renal cell carcinoma urothelial carcinoma and NSCLC and treated with anti-PD1PD-L1.

