received 1 march 2017  revised 13 april 2017  accepted 27 april 2017doi 10.1111odi.12691review ar ticle is the oral fungal pathogen candida albicans a cariogendfa pereira1  cj seneviratne2  cy koga-ito1  lp samaranayake31sao jose dos campos institute of science and technology universidade estadual paulista unesp sao jose dos campos brazil2oral sciences faculty of dentistry national university of singapore singapore3department of bioclinical sciences kuwait university kuwait and school of dentistry the university of queensland australiacorrespondencecristiane yumi koga-ito department of environmental engineering and biopathology graduate program universidade estadual paulistaunesp sao jose dos campos- sp brazil.email funding informationfaculty of dentistry the university of hong kong fundacao de amparo a pesquisa do estado de sao paulo grantaward number 1017355-8 coordenacao de aperfeicoamento de pessoal de nivel superior grantaward number 47211101  introduction dental caries together with periodontal disease is the second most prevalent infectious diseases affecting the human kind petersen  baehni 2012. although pathobiology of dental caries is complex it is generally accepted that the dental plaque biofilm is the prime mover of the disease process nyvad crielaard mira takahashi  beighton 2013. dental plaque is a microbial biofilm comprising numerous bacte- rial species and recent next-g eneration sequencing ngs technology has revealed its enormous complexity with the possibility of more than one thousand species inhabiting the oral biofilm community benitez- paez belda-f erre simon-s oro  mira 2014. however it is gener- ally believed that not all species in the plaque biofilm are involved in the pathogenesis of caries takahashi  nyvad 2011. bacteria such as streptococcus mutans that proliferate initiate and perpetuate the disease process possibly aided by secondary agents such as candidaspecies are the major protagonists takahashi  nyvad 2011.classical cariogenic pathogens belong to the mutans group of streptococci.

journal of dental research 80 378-384.pereira-cenci t. deng d. m. kraneveld e. a. manders e. m. del bel cury a. a. ten cate j. m.  crielaard w. 2008. the effect of streptococcus mutans and candida glabrata on candida albicans biofilms formed on different surfaces.

bacterial cell wall polysaccha- rides cell surface proteins and salivary proline-rich proteins are all known to be involved in c. albicans coaggregation with oral viridans streptococci and actinomyces ten cate klis pereira-cenci crielaard  de groot 2009 o'sullivan jenkinson  cannon 2000. studies with saliva-coated hydroxyapatite beads showed that preincubation of beads with s. mutans had no significant effect on subsequent adhesion of c. albicans.

2017 showed that the presence of nicotine enhanced the dual-species biofilm formation and promoted c. albicans attachment to s. mutans.to conclude akin to lactobacilli and mutans streptococci impli- cated in cariogenesis c. albicans also possess a broad spectrum of cariogenic attributes that could make it a candidate cariogen.

journal of the american dental association 129 187-194.jarosz l. m. deng d. m.  van der mei c. 2009. streptococcus mutans competence-stimulating peptide inhibits candida albicans hypha for- mation.

carbohydrate research 24 216-217.lozano moraga c. p. rodriguez martinez g. a. lefimil puente c. a. morales bozo i. c.  urzua orellana b. r. 2017. prevalence of candida albicans and carriage of candida non-albicans in the saliva of preschool children according to their caries status.

applied and environment microbiology 787 2190-2199.jacob l. s. flaitz c. m. nichols c. m.  hicks m. j.

they attributed this to the sucrose metabolic pathway inc. albicans where repression of sucrose-induced expression of a-glu- cosidase in the presence of environmental glucose occurs figure 1. the authors concluded that c. albicans is capable of causing occlusal caries in rats at a high rate klinke et al.

among these molecules one well-known group belongs to cell surface glycoproteins that are encoded by the agglutinin- like sequence als gene family of candida zhao oh yeater  hoyer 2005. als family of c. albicans includes eight genes and the high degree of sequence relatedness between these genes and the tremen- dous allelic variability often present in the same c. albicans strain have complicated the characterization of this gene family zhao et al.

applied and environment microbiology 68 2382-2390.willems h. m. kos k. jabra-rizk m. a.  krom b. p. 2016. candida albicans in oral biofilms could prevent caries.

2003 demonstrated that despite being a log 5.9 lower in cfu c. albicans in a liquid culture medium dissolved hydroxyapatite at a 20-fold higher rate than s. mutans suggesting its pathogenic potential particularly in root or dentinal caries.

clearly both s. mutans and c. albicans demonstrate several critical virulence attributes such as adhesion and biofilm for- mation on tooth surfaces and acidogenicity and aciduricity in a milieu rich in dietary carbohydrates all of which play a major role in caries development.

caries research 35 397-406.marsh p.  martin m. 1992. oral microbiology 3rd ed.. london chapman  hall.matsumoto-nakano m. fujita k.  ooshima t. 2007. comparison of glucan-binding proteins in cariogenicity of streptococcus mutans.

apmis 115 1241-1251.tsang c. s. chu f. c. leung w. k. jin l. j. samaranayake l. p.  siu s. c. 2007. phospholipase proteinase and haemolytic ac- tivities of candida albicans isolated from oral cavities of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

hence in the following review we examine first the colonization potential of candida species on abiotic surfaces such as enamel and dentine its biochemical arsenal for carbohydrate metabolism and above all its acidogenicity and acid tolerance in a cariogenic low ph milieu.2  candida and caries there is a significant database to indicate that candida species are caries-associated and based on these and related information oral levels of candida have been frequently used as indicators of caries activity by a number of investigators pienihakkinen 1988 raitio pienihakkinen  sheinin 1996 raja hannan  ali 2010.candida species have been isolated from enamel caries as well as from root and dentinal caries.

