all rights reserved.key words bile acid bile acid transformation secondary bile acid intestinal bacteria deoxycholic acid 7-oxo-deoxycholic acid bacteroides nordii clostridium disporicum clostridium subterminale ursocholic acidprimary bile acids are synthesized in the liver as conjugated forms with taurine or glycine and secreted into the duodenum as the main component of bile.

some portion of the bile acids escape enterohepatic circulation and flow into the large intestine approximately 400e800 mgday where they undergo extensive biotransformations such as deconjugation and subse- quent conversion into secondary bile acids sbas by gut mi- crobes .transformation of bile acids generally involves oxidation and epimerization of the hydroxy groups at the c-3 c-7 and c-12 positions .

the mz values of the product ions of deprotonated mole- cules from trihydroxylated bile acids ca uca a- b- u-mcas and hca dihydroxy- lated bile acids cdca dca and udca dihydroxylated and mono-oxo-bile acids 7- oxo-dca and 12-oxo-cdca monohydroxylated and mono-oxo-bile acids 3-oxo-dca 7-oxo-lca and 12-oxo-lca monohydroxylated bile acid lca and the internal standard ndca were 407.57 391.60 405.56 389.60 375.57 and 377.55 respectively.animal experiments to prepare samples for the isolation of sba producers three-week-old male wkahhkmslc rats japan slc inc. hama- matsu japan were individually housed in standard wire-bottomed cages in a controlled environment 22 - 2o c with 55 - 5 humidity and a light period from 0800 to 2000 and allowed ad libitum access to food and water.

 isolation of six novel 7-oxo- or urso-type secondary bile acid-producing bacteria from rat cecal contentssarinya tawthepsatoru fukiyaja-young leemasahito hagioyoshitoshi oguratetsuya hayashi and atsushi yokotalaboratory of microbial physiology research faculty of agriculture hokkaido university sapporo hokkaido 060-8589 japan1 faculty of life sciences toyo university itakura gunma 374-0193 japan2 and department of bacteriology faculty of medical sciences kyushu university fukuoka 812-8582 japan3received 12 april 2017 accepted 5 june 2017available online 24 july 2017understanding the dynamics of secondary bile acid sba formation in the gut by sba-producing bacteria is important for host health as sbas have been shown to affect host pathophysiology and gut microbiota composition.

in addition bile acids have been known to act as signaling molecules to regulate host glucose lipid and en- ergy metabolism via interaction with a farnesoid x receptor andor a g-protein-coupled bile acid receptor tgr5 .

structural vari- ation of each bile acid as the result of biotransformation strongly affects the affinity of the bile acid molecule to these receptors and thus determines their efficiency as signaling molecules .

thus improving our knowledge of bacterial bile acid metabolism and sba formation in the intestines is essential to host health maintenance.however despite this necessity the number of sba-producing bacteria that have been characterized in terms of their physiolog- ical and biochemical properties is still not sufficient thus it is difficult to fully understand the mechanism that determines bile acid composition in the intestine.

then 28 ml of concentrated sulfuric acid was added carefully.analysis of bile acids by the uplcesi-ms system for identification and quantification of sba products and substrate bile acids uplcesi-ms analysis was conducted.

after evaporation to dryness the extracted bile acids were re-dissolved in 1 ml methanol and 100 ml of this bile acid extract was subjected to purification with the oasis hlb extraction cartridge waters corp. milford ma usa according to the manufacturer's instructions.

our findings will facilitate the elucidation of bile acid biotransformations by gut microbiota and provide further insights into the dynamics of bile acids in the complex gut environment.supplementary data related to this article can be found at .acknowledgmentsthis study was supported in part by the regional innovation strategy support program of the ministry of education culture sports science and technology of the japanese government.

the main primary bile acids are cholic acid ca 3a7a12a-trihydroxy-5b-cholan-24-oic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid cdca 3a7a-dihydroxy-5b-cholan-24-oic acid in humans  and ca and b-muricholic acid mca 3a6b7b-trihydroxy-5b-cholan-24-oic acid in rodents .

in the intestine primary bile acids facilitate fat digestion and absorp- tion most are reabsorbed and returned to the liver which we refer to as enterohepatic circulation.

this reaction consists of two sequential reactions oxidation of ca and cdca into their oxo-type derivatives by a-hsdhs and sub- sequent reduction of these oxo groups by b-hsdhs generating b- hydroxy bile acids .

if r is oh the bile acids are dca ca 7-oxo-dca and uca.

the bile acids in parentheses occur when r is h. 7a-dehy- droxylation is a multi-step reaction represented by the dashed line.

