no plr colony was detected in the negative control bacterial suspensions without plr or samples with 0.05 plr strains plrnon-plr  12000. thus the detection limit of the present method is 2.5 x 10 cfu10 cfu of total lab population.isolation of plr from human fecal sampleshuman fecal samples n  124 were collected for isolation of plr strains using mrs agar separation combined with cib.

rthoamthneosufsacltc7t0h5atanidt opthroedr upcreosbioptiilci containing a human-mucus binding protein 8 9. these pili named spacba pili are composed of spaa spab and spac subunits spaa is the main subunit forming the core of the pilus and is relatively conserved 10 11. these proteinaceous heteropolymeric extracellular appendagesfunction as intestinal adhesins and promote adhesion and cytokine modulation in intestinal epithelial cells and macrophages 12 13. recently this pilus phenotype was identified in several other l. rhamnosus isolates and piliated l. rhamnosus plr isolates were found to possess higher adhesion capacity to the intestinal mucus compared with non-piliated isolates 11 14 15 indicating that plr strains are potential adherent l. rhamnosus strains.only a small number of l. rhamnosus isolates mainly human intestinal isolates have functional pili 14. to our best knowledge the distribution and ecological role of plr strains in the gastrointestinal gi tract of humans and other potential reservoirs for plr strains have not been reported.

plr strains were also isolated from the feces of adults 51 73 and 75 years and a 6-year-old child suggesting that plr is a normal inhabitant of the gi microbiota although the environment of the gi tract changes with age and diet.rapd fingerprinting of eight plr sample isolates and three reference strains revealed different patterns for isolates from different hosts indicating the existence of genetic diversity among plr isolates.

rhamnosus strains remarkable mucus binding ability it is reasonable to speculate that other novel plr strains possessing valuable characteristics such as acid and bile salt tolerance pathogen inhibition autoaggregation and hydrophobicity might exist and that these may have probiotic applications 16. such investigations require the isolation and characterization of plr strains from complex samples such as human or animal feces.traditional methods for isolating l. rhamnosus cannot distinguish plr from non-plr strains and selectively identify target colonies.

colonies yielding dark blue signals on the ncm were identified as plr strains.quantitative detection of plr in mixed-strain culturesto prepare mixed-strain cultures 1 ml of freshly prepared plr cocktail suspension 10 cfuml gglv108xj-f 111 was mixed with 1-2000 ml i.e.

the sensitivity and accuracy of the plr quantification were evaluated by comparing the number of cib-positive colonies l g cfuml in the mixed-strain cultures with the preset number of plr colonies l g cfuml in control samples.isolation of plr strains from human fecal sampleshuman fecal samples were collected from 124 healthy infants and adult physical examinees aged 6 months75 years in yangzhou municipal people's hospital yangzhou jiangsu china.

the reactivity of anti-spaa with other lab strains amenable to mrs culture was analyzed similarly table 1.only the three plr strains gg lv108 and xj-f tested positive in all the assays and no cross-reactivity was observed for the other strains.development of an mrs agar plating plus cib method for quantitative detection of plr strains in mixed- strain culturesmixed-strain cultures 10 cfuml with or without addition of plr strains were separated by plating 10-fold or 2-fold dilutions on mrs agar plates and colonies obtained were used for cib analysis.

these results indicated that the combination of mrs agar separation and cib procedure is feasible for selective identification of plr colonies in mixed-strain samples.plr colonies in both the non-plr strain mixture and human fecal microbiota suspensions were quantified by enumeration of colony blots on ncms table 2. when the relative plr population was 0.25 plrnon-plr  1400 cib enumerations for both plrnon-plr and plrhuman fecal microbiota agreed with the preset plr strain concentrations determined by mrs plate counting r  0.995 and 0.977 respectively.

1 and 2 were set as positive and negative controls respectively.b66plr strains cocktail of strain gg lv108 and xj-f 10 cfuml background bacteria cocktail of 22 non-piliated strains table 1 10 cfuml or human fecalmicrobiota containing no plr strains 10 cfuml.number of plr colonies mrs-agar plate counts of plr strains mixed with the same volume of sterile pbs instead of background bacteria.

these results indicated a high degree of genetic variability among plr strains in the gi tract of humans at different ages.probiotic characteristics of plr isolatesthe adhesion capacity to human caco-2 cells autoaggregation surface hydrophobicity and acid and bile salt resistance of 13 l. rhamnosus strains including eight sample plr isolates and five reference strains gg lv108 xj-f ld40 and ld31 were characterized.

hydrophobicity and autoaggregation and a specific ligand receptor play a role 41. we comparedthe adhesion surface hydrophobicity and autoaggregation capacities of 11 plr strains eight sample isolates  three reference strains and two non-piliated l. rhamnosus strains and nine of 11 plr strains showed higher caco-2 adhering ability than the non-plr strains p  0.05 indicating that pili play an important role in the adhesion of l. rhamnosus strains to caco-2 cells as reported previously 12 14 15. plr strains with higher hydrophobicity and autoaggregation percentages plr01 plr03 plr06 and lv108 showed higher adhering abilities than those with low hydrophobicity and autoaggregating abilities plr02 and plr04.

data were recorded as the means - sd of three independent experiments for each strain.immunoelectron microscopy iemto confirm specific reaction between the plr cell surface and anti-spaa iem of plr and non-plr strains was performed.

in parallel experiments a plr suspension 1 ml mixed with the same volume of sterile pbs positive control was used to determine the preset number of plr colonies by mrs agar plate counting.

the asterisk represents the possible positions of spaa pilins covalently linked with other molecules.in contrast positive signals were not detected in the three non-plr strains.reactivity of anti-spaa with whole cells of plr strains the reactivity of anti-spaa with whole cells of plr strains was confirmed by iem iifc and cib fig.

the replicate colonies from the plr strain mixture gg  lv108  xj-f positive control or plr  non-plr mixtures produced positive blots after cib fig.

