these isolates combined a strong phosphate-solubilization phenotype with auxin production group b. a third group of isolates art4 koc9 mcc5 mcc9 mic8 ste1 str pse3 pse5 pse6 pse8 and pse9 in supplementary table s2 corresponded to those characterized by a production of siderophores along with lytic enzymes or auxins group c. the last andmajor group of isolates in the pca analysis corresponded to a tax- onomically heterogeneous set of bacteria 33 genera that presented various moderately expressed plant-growth-promoting activities either individually or in combination group d. thus isolates from group d that were able to produce indoleacetic acid 79 isolates were tax- onomically well distributed--with 19 genera presenting at least one auxin-producing isolate--and with most belonging to microbacterium 1679 arthrobacter 1379 kocuria 1279 micrococcus 1379 bacillus 679 and rhizobium 679. in addition to the isolates from group b mentioned above that have a remarkably strong ability to so- lubilize phosphate e.g.

demonstrates that the more prevalent activities varied depending on the specific genera under consideration with the bacillus isolates having a remarkable presence of hydrolytic enzymes and fungal-in- hibitory activities and members of the pantoea genus exhibiting notable phosphate-solubilization activity as well as siderophore plus in- doleacetic-acid production and cellulase activity.a pca based on the set of activities present in each individual iso-late  indicated that the endophytes located at the rightmost position of the plot corresponded to seed isolates from the genus ba- cillus i. e. the isolates bac2 bac3 bac4 bac6 bac12 bac22 bac23 and bac24 in table s2 that combined several hydrolytic activities proteases amylases pectinases and cellulases together with fungal- inhibitory activity group a. the upper-left region of the pca corre- sponded to mostly isolates of the pantoea genus together with two isolates from the enterobacter and exiguobacterium genera pan1 pan2 pan3 pan4 pan5 pan8 pan10 pan11 pan12 ent2 and exi4.

the taxonomic typification of the isolates recovered from the 6 different alfalfa varieties detected the presence of bacteria that be- longed to fifteen of the genera that we recognized in the alfalfa-seed endophytes together with bacteria included in 6 new genera corynebacterium flavobacterium georgenia sphingobium novosphingobium and stenotrophomonas that had not been detected in our previous assays with seed exudates.

the bacteria from the several genera with remarkable activities of siderophore production in combination with lytic-enzyme activities or auxin synthesis were sequestered as a separate group in the pca analysis group c. in contrast to the isolates from group a bacteria from group b group c group d and group e were found to be both seed and plant endophytes.

with respect to siderophore production 57 isolates from 50 of the genera included in group d proved to be positive for that trait with most of those isolates pertaining to the genera arthrobacter 1057 bacillus 4 57 pseudomonas 357 kocuria 957 rhizobium 457 and mi- crococcus 457. in addition different moderately expressed enzyme activities related to biocontrol and niche colonization i. e. proteases cellulases chitinases pectinases amylases were observed in quite taxonomically diverse isolates from group d table s2.

other sources of heterogeneity may arise from dif- ferences in the seed genotypes themselves and also from differences in the plant and soil microbiomes associated to the production of each seed batch.colonization by seed endophytes of alfalfa plants derived from surface- sterilized seeds and grown under axenic conditionsin order to evaluate whether seed-borne endophytes were able to colonize alfalfa plants surface-sterilized seeds were grown axenically in plastic tubes and one month after germination the plant seedlings were analyzed to test for the presence of culturable bacteria cf.

isolates were considered to be siderophore-producing when an orange halo of diameter greater than 5 mm was formed around the bacterial colony after 5 days of in- cubation at 28 degc.chitinase activityto test the chitinase activity bacterial isolates were grown on solid medium with colloidal chitin  prepared by .

bacterial clones from the several genera that could not be identified through the use of the commercial database of the bruker biotyping system after the initial maldi-tof analysis were typified by 16s-rdna sequencing and the corresponding ms records were then incorporated into an in-house library which registry served for the subsequent identification of new isolates.the analysis of the endophytes recovered from the alfalfa varietysuper monarca enabled the identification of bacteria that belonged to 24 different genera.

the phyla here in italics and the number of genera in parenthesis were as follows actinobacteria 17 proteobacteria 13 firmicutes 9 and bacteroidetes 1. among the actinobacteria most of the genera belonged to the order micrococcales 12 with the rest belonging to the orders corynebacteriales 3 and streptomycetales 1. the phylum proteobacteria was the most diversely represented when considered at the level of order with genera from the orders enterobacteriales 3 pseudomonadales 3 sphingomonadales 3 caulobacteriales1 rhodospirillales 1 xanthomonadales 1 and rhizobiales 1. within the firmicutes the genera were only from the order bacillales 8 and lactobacillales 1. bacteroidetes was the least represented phylum with only one genus from the order flavobacteriales.

in addition a number of diverse seed endophytes have proved to inhibit different phytopathogenic fungi by producing antifungal compounds toxins or hydrolytic enzymes  .at the present time information on endophyte-access mechanisms and community assembly in seeds still remains scarce   although in some species the seed coat has been indicated as the location where seed endophytes reside .

although the exact location of the seed endophytes still remains obscure certain authors have proposed that the seed coat generates a protective microhabitat where bacteria are preserved before their transmission to the next generation of plants e.g.

pgp activity plant-growth-- promoting activity.remarkable diversity involving the presence of bacteria from 34 dif- ferent genera that belonged to 4 different phyla  panel a seed endophytes.

in addition to the expected presence of bacteria and other mi- croorganisms associated with the external seed surface   landmark studies with maize and rice have de- monstrated that surface-sterilized seeds are nevertheless vehicles of a significant bacterial diversity whose origin properties and biologic roles are currently under active investigation  .

through the analysis of more than two hundred seed and plant en- dophytes of m. sativa we have identified bacteria from 40 different genera.

the endophytes from bacillus for one which genus is a frequent seed en- dophyte in several plant species   --together with the isolates from 19 other genera that were found here exclusively in seeds  table s1--constitute useful germplasm to investigate the phenotypic char- acteristics of these endophytes underlying their preference to colonize seeds.

