at the day of inoculation and 2 4 7 and 14 days later sub-samples from all treatments were collected to determine the degradation of tbz and the composition of the consortium via 16s rrna generrna-dgge and cloning.samples of the antibiotic-treated consortium which main- tained their degrading capacity were sub-cultured in a fresh medium amended with the same antibiotic for four successive cycles.

imazalil is not degraded by the tbz- degrading consortium but it was preferred over succinate or glucose as an alternative c source control treatment since the latter compounds promote the non-selective proliferation of all the bacteria in the consortium and thus would have not allowed the identification of the key degrading member based on the increase in the abundance of their 16s rrna gene.

the obtained sequences were edited and analysed for best match with the on-line blast.the capacity of the consortium to degrade structurally related chemicals to tbzinitially the capacity of the consortium to degrade compounds of similar chemical structure to tbz like i the fungicides fuberidazole carbendazim and the main metabolite of the lat- ter 2-aminobenzimidazole and ii 1h-benzimidazole-2-car- boxylic acid 1h-benzimidazole-2-carboxamide and benz- imidazole previously identified as intermediate metabolites of tbz in photodegradation studies ec  was tested.

thus after 1 month of sub-culturing the consortium was able to completely de- grade tbz in 7 days compared to the same consortium after 24 months of sub-culturing which degraded tbz in 2 days fig.

less intense bands rep- resented phylotypes identified as pseudomonas b4 b5 methylibium b8a oligotropha b10a and shinella b10b.antibiotics-driven selection of the tbz-degrading bacteriato identify which bacterial members of the consortium are involved in tbz degradation we investigated the im- pact of selected antibiotics on the consortium composition and degradation capacity.

doi 10.1007s00253-017-8128-5isolation of a bacterial consortium able to degrade the fungicide thiabendazole the key role of a sphingomonas phylotypechiara perruchon1  antonis chatzinotas23  michalis omirou4 sotirios vasileiadis 5  urania menkissoglou-spiroudi6 dimitrios g. karpouzas 1received 15 october 2016  revised 9 january 2017  accepted 12 january 2017  published online 2 february 2017 springer-verlag berlin heidelberg 2017abstract thiabendazole tbz is a fungicide used in fruit- packaging plants.

we report the isolation via enrichment cultures from a polluted soil of the first bacterial consortium able to rapidly degrade tbz and use it as a carbon source.

denaturating gradient gel electrophoresis dgge and clon- ing showed that the consortium was composed of a- b- and g-proteobacteria.

lc-msms analysis verified that tbz degrada- tion proceeds via cleavage of the imidazole moiety releasing thiazole-4-carboxamidine which was not further transformed and the benzoyl moiety possibly as catechol which was even- tually consumed by the bacterial consortium as suggested by sip-dgge.keywords thiabendazole .

the key degrading members of the consortium were identified with a multiphase approach including q-pcr denaturating gradient gel electrophoresis dgge cloningand stable isotope probing sip-dgge.

were also used to isolate in pure culture the sphingomonas phylotype identified via culture-independent approaches as the key member of the tbz-degrading consortium.

this approach led to the isolation of a stabilized tbz- degrading bacterial consortium which was studied further.

the consortium isolated is kept in the inventory of pesticide- degrading bacteria of the university of thessaly department of biochemistry and biotechnology laboratory of plant and environmental biotechnology and could be made available to the public upon request to the authors.identification of the key tbz-degrading members of the isolated consortiuma range of approaches including antibiotics-driven selection combined with16s ribosomal rna rrna generrna- dgge analysis q-pcr and sip-dgge were employed to identify the key bacterial members driving the degradation of tbz and if possible isolate them in axenic cultures using alternative cultivation approaches.antibiotics-driven selection of tbz-degrading bacteriaduplicate msmn  tbz samples were amended with the antibiotics amikacin working concentration 16 mg l-1 ampicilin 100 mg l-1 ciprofloxacin 2 mg l-1 colistin 2 mg l-1 doxycycline 25 mg l-1 nalidixic acid 23 mg l-1 penicillin 300 mg l-1 piperacillin 50 mg l-1 streptomycin 200 mg l-1 trimethoprim 20 mg l-1 and vancomycin 200 mg l-1.

triplicates per antibiotic were inoculated with 1 ml of a fresh bacterial suspension of the consortium grown to the mid-log phase 50 degradation of tbz and adjusted to an od600 of 0.1. triplicate non- inoculated controls and inoculated cultures without antibiotics were also included.

the composition of the bac- terial community that grew on the different growth media and of the selected colonies was analysed by dgge.analysis of the dynamics of the key degrading member of the consortium by q-pcrtriplicate msmn  tbz 25 mg l-1 or imazalil 25 mg l-1 were inoculated with the tbz-degrading consor- tium as described above.

