for this draft whole genometable 1diversity of bacteria isolated from 49 out of 82 heroin samples.species of isolates of heroin samples with isolatesabundance across different samples b. paralicheniformis was only found in batches from 2009 and 2012. b. paralicheniformis dominated in samples from neu-isenburg seized in 2012 .

importantly these samples would deliver distinct microbiota which would be independent of that of any end-user's commensal microflora.the organisms contaminating the drug samples were analyzed on a genome-wide level and were used for preliminary criminal attribution purposes.

the ani data were converted to a phylogenetic tree using the cluster 3.0 and treeview tools  .the genome data have been deposited in genbank the accession numbers are given in supplementary table 1.resultsseized heroin harbors a limited but distinct set of bacteria comprising endospore-forming firmicutes of the order bacillalesanalysis of all 82 heroin samples yielded 68 isolates retrieved from 49 culture-positive heroin samples 60 culture positive.

one sample produced five one sample four one samples three and nine samples two different isolates.

in this work 82 samples of non-street market wholesale heroin origi- nating from the german federal criminal police office's heroin analysis program seized during the period be- tween 2009 and 2014 were analyzed for contaminating bacteria.

in total 68 isolates were retrieved from 49 out of 82 samples analyzed 60 culture positive.

probably the first thorough survey of microorganisms from heroin and the drug users' paraphernalia reported that two thirds of the heroin tested samples were culture positive.

the most abundantly recovered bacteria from these samples were bacillus species followed by other gram-positives.

notwithstanding these efforts made us aware of the potential of ana- lyzing bacteria contaminating the drug in concert with traditional for- ensics for attribution purposes.recently we conducted a study aimed at retrieving assumed b. anthracis contamination in 82 samples of seizures from illegal whole- sale levels.

these samples originated from the german federal criminal police office's german heroin analysis programme seized during the period between 2009 and 2014 .

in the present study we explored the potential bioforensics utility of characterizing bacteria from these heroin samples.

these forensic efforts can be expected with a growing da- tabase to aid in elucidating distribution networks and geographic ori- gins of heroin-processing by overlaying relationships of bacterial genomic data with that of traditional criminal forensics.material and methodsheroin samplesthe 82 heroin samples provided by the german federal criminal police office originating from the german heroin analysis programme were the same as in .

all samples were collected in the time period between 2009 and 2014. their diacetylmorphine concentrations ranged from 24.9 to 69.8 ww determined as described in .extraction of bacteria and cultivationexcept for initial direct plating experiments we followed our pre- viously published method .

finally samples were diluted and plated on different solid growth media regular solidified lysis broth media lb agar as well as columbia blood agar both becton dickinson and company.

terralin paa was also used for disinfection and to denature heroin samples after experi- mental use and prior to thermal disposal.inactivation of bacteria and extraction of dnain general bacteria were inactivated for dna extraction after a single passage following isolation on agar in order to minimize cul- turing-related genetic changes.

