undigested imo might exert protective effects on the intestinal mucosa that might be associated with a physical effect of imo such as an ultrainfiltration action and local covering of mucosa and the resulting improvement of the ultrastructure of intestinal mucosa is helpful to block the vicious cycle of local inflammation at the vhs status.summarytaken together imo can significantly improve the visceral hyperalgesia of was-induced ibs rats and repair the damages on epithelial ultrastructure of intestinal mucosa.

our findings indicate that 2-week imo treatment may improve vhs in ibs rats but has no significant influence on intestinal motility.this study aimed to explain the therapeutic effect of imo on vhs in ibs rats from the aspects of change in gut microbiota mucosal barrier function and systemic immune response.

this does not alter our adherence to all the plos one policies on sharing data and materials.abbreviations awr abdominal withdrawal reflex elisa enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ibs irritable bowel syndrome imo isomalto- oligosaccharides itr intestinal transit rate sem scanning electron microscopy spf specific pathogen free vhs visceral hypersensitivity was water avoidance stress.conclusionin this randomized placebo-controlled study the results showed that imo amelioratedwas-induced visceral hyperalgesia in rats this effect may be attributed to the repair of dam- ages on intestinal epithelial ultrastructure.introductionirritable bowel syndrome ibs is a physiological-psychological-social disease and its etiology is related to genetics foods infection and mental factors.

our study for the first time indicated that imo could reverse damage to the ultrastructure of intestinal mucosal epithelium in was- induced ibs rats an action that paralleled the improvement of vhs in these rats.

this result shows that the rats had developed obviously diarrhea.after establishment of the animal model vhs was measured in was rats and control rats.

this study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effects of the prebiotic isomalto-oligosaccharides imo on visceral hyper- sensitivity vhs in rats and to explore potential mechanism.methodswater avoidance stress was was used to induce vhs in rats.

in this study they declared the reduction in irinotecan-induced a chemotherapy medication intestinal toxicity in rats by non-digestible carbohydrates also including imo did not correlate to stimulation of specific bacterial taxa.

after imo treatment secretory granules were no longer observed at the opening of mucosal glands mild effect of imo on the distribution of gut microbiota in was rats.was water avoidance stress imo isomalto-oligosaccharides n  9 in each group.

rats were randomly assigned to control group or was group in a proportional distribution of 12. in the morning rats in the was group were placed on the platform and allowed to stay on it for 1 h. this protocol was repeated for 10 days.

rats with vhs were then divided into an imo-treated group intragastric 5 imo 2 mld 14 days and a water-con- trol group intragastric water.

sem showed damages on the ileal epithelial ultrastructure in vhs rats which was attenuated by imo treatment.

the current study aimed to investigate the therapeutic efficacy of imo in ibs rats and explore potential mechanisms.

in the imo-treated group rats were given 2 ml of 5 imo solution by gastric lavage twice daily for the following 14 days.

when compared to control group  many secretory granules were seen at the opening of mucosal glands in water-control group  the regional microvilli were shed goblet cells becameisomalto-oligosaccharides imo improved visceral hyperalgesia of water avoidance stress was rats.

a placebo-controlled diet-controlled trial showed that treatment with a imo-rich diet for 4-8 weeks in the elderly with constipation increased the frequency of spon- taneous defecation elevated the amount of fecal lactobacillus bifidobacterium and enterobac- teriaceae and decreased the amount of clostridium and increased fecal wet weight by 24. in the present study the results showed that vhs was improved after imo treatment in was rats an improvement characterized by reduction trend in awr score responding to colorectal distension at a pressure of 20 mmhg significant reduction in awr score close to that in con- trol group responding to colorectal distension at 40 mmhg and an increase in pain threshold responding to colorectal distension.

