differences between the microbiota of healthy and acne skin have been reported by bek-thomsen and co-workers who found that the follicles of three healthy controls were exclusively colonised by p. acnes whereas those of five acne patients contained p. acnes staphylococcus epidermidis and minor proportions of other species.26 opposite to numerous previous findings a recent study claims that staphylococci were more abun- dant on the surface of different acne lesions than on acne patients' non-lesional skin and moreover that propionibacteria represented less than 2 of the bacteria on the skin surface examined from skin surface swabs.27the most abundant otu both in controls and in acne patients be- longed to the genus propionibacterium.

it is known that samples from low-diversity and high-biomass sebaceous sites can offer greater sequence yields than those taken from dry or moist sites with high diversity and lower biomass.45 in our study treatments especially isotretinoin increased the diversity of the skin microbiota and also made the skin drier which could explain why contaminants were more apparent in samples taken after treatment.taken together our results suggest that p. acnes dominates both in acne and healthy skin but acne patients' and control subjects' skin differ in the presence of several otus.

all these bacteria are fac- ultative or strictly anaerobic and are normal components of skin oral or upper respiratory track flora.28-31 their diminished abundance on acne patients' skin could result from the domination of propionibac- teria at sebaceous sites where propionibacteria may overcome other bacteria competing partly for the same ecological niche.the comparative impact of different treatments on the bacterial communities in acne skin has only been evaluated in a handful of stud- ies.

for all statistical comparisons p-values below 0.05 were considered statistically significant.3  results  study subjectsa total of 47 subjects 31 acne vulgaris patients and sixteen control patients were recruited for the study but after re-evaluating and trimming the samples the data from 36 subjects including 25 acne patients and eleven volunteers with healthy skin were accepted for the final analysis.

the severity of acne was assessed by the leeds revised acne grading system.20 the skin samples were collected before treatment initia- tion and approximately 6 weeks later.all skin washing make-up deodorants and skin creams were avoided for 24 hours prior to sampling and the person performing the sampling wore sterile gloves.

it has been demonstrated that dominant otus are identified equally well by less invasive sampling methods and that a profile sufficiently represen- tative of community membership is obtained with swab scrape and punch methods.41 however our method does not consider for ex- ample the distinct p. acnes populations of specific skin environments superficial intra-stratum corneum infundibular and follicular.42 obviously more studies where the skin samples are taken with sev- eral different methods from the same patient are needed to reveal the differences between skin surface and deeper colonisation.

the propionibacterium genus dominates sebaceous skin areas in both healthy volunteers and acne patientsthe skin microbiota on the cheek and the back in acne patients was dominated by four bacterial phyla actinobacteria firmicutesproteobacteria and bacteroides data not shown.

thus our results are in line with those of several studies based on culturing and sequencing showing that the skin microbiome is similar in the sebaceous-rich face and back areas of individuals with healthy skin and untreated acne patients.67911 in a study where nose follicular casts were analysed using 16s rrna amplicon sequencing no dif- ference was detected between acne patients and healthy controls in the relative abundance of p. acnes and the other common bac- teria were staphylococcus epidermidis propionibacterium humerusii and propionibacterium granulosum.11 unfortunately the length of the v1-v3 16s rrna amplicons used in our study was not sufficient for reliable species definition.

isotretinoin the most effective treatment for acne has no direct antimicrobial effects but reduces sebum pro- duction thereby altering the microenvironment which in turn reduces the abundance of surface and ductal p. acnes.1213 in addition the most significant changes during isotretinoin treatment involve the suppression of gram-negative bacteria and the emergence of s. au- reus.14 tetracyclines are broad-spectrum antibiotics that are highly effective against various pathogens15 and reduce the number of pro- pionibacteria and staphylococci on acne patients' skin.1617 of note both isotretinoin and tetracyclines have anti-inflammatory properties that are considered to be important in the treatment of acne.151819the aim of this study was to detect the difference in bacterial mi- crobiota between control subjects with healthy skin and acne patients in three different locations cheek back and armpit.

the result would probably have been similar as the microbial communities of controls were similar to those of the acne patients.there were no statistically significant differences in bacterial di- versity between untreated acne patients and controls in different body locations but the microbiome in the cheek samples of acne patients' skin treated with either isotretinoin or lymecycline was more diverse than that of untreated ones.

accepted 9 june 2017 doi 10.1111exd.13397original ar ticle isotretinoin and lymecycline treatments modify the skin microbiota in acnehanna-leena kelhala12  velma t. e. aho3  nanna fyhrquist4  pedro a. b. pereira3  minna e. kubin12  lars paulin3  riitta palatsi1  petri auvinen3  kaisa tasanen12  antti lauerma51department of dermatology pedego research center university of oulu oulu finland2medical research center oulu mrcoulu oulu university hospital oulu finland3institute of biotechnology dna sequencing and genomics laboratory university of helsinki helsinki finland4department of bacteriology and immunology university of helsinki helsinki finland5department of dermatology university of helsinki and helsinki university central hospital helsinki finlandcorrespondencehanna-leena kelhala department of dermatology university of oulu oulu university hospital oulu finland.email funding informationfinnish dermatological society mrc oulu doctoral program1  introduction acne is a complex inflammatory disease of the pilosebaceous units in skin areas rich in sebaceous glands including the face back and chest.

at the same time when the skin becomes drier the micro- biome starts to resemble the composition of bacteria found on atopic skin with a greater abundance of staphylococcus and streptococcus32 which we also detected in our samples specifically those from the cheek.

p. acnes is known to activate innate and adaptive immunityvia toll-like receptor 2 tlr2 and the nod-like receptor p3 nlrp3- inflammasome triggering host defense mechanisms to combat infec- tion.2-5 according to culture-based methods normal skin microflora of adult subjects in areas with abundant pilosebaceous follicles consist principally of propionibacterium spp staphylococcus spp and malassezia spp and to a lesser extent microsporum aerobic coryneforms and gram-negative bacteria.6-8 similarly 16s rrna-based methods have revealed that propionibacteria and staphylococci are the most common bacterial groups in sebaceous areas.910 a recent 16s rrna gene sequencing-based exploration of nose follicular casts from 49 acne patients and 52 healthy individuals showed no difference in the rel- ative abundance of p. acnes between these groups.

we were particu- larly interested in how isotretinoin and lymecycline treatments influ- ence the composition of the skin microbiota in acne patients which has not previously been addressed with 16s rrna gene amplicon sequencing-based approach.2  materials and methods  study subjects and samplingthe ethics committee of the northern ostrobothnia hospital district approved the study 23.04.2012 ref.

at each location of healthy controls' skin the dominating phyla and taxonomic groups were similar to those found in samples from untreated acne patients.

