isotope and microbiome data provide complementary information to identify natural nitrate attenuation processes in groundwaterelena hernandez-del amo  anna mencio  frederic gich  josep mas-pla  lluis baneras a grup d'ecologia microbiana molecular gemm institut d'ecologia aquatica facultat de ciencies universitat de girona 17003 girona spainb grup de geologia aplicada i ambiental gaia departament de ciencies ambientals universitat de girona 17003 girona spainc institut catala de recerca de l'aigua 17003 girona spainh i g h l i g h t sisotopic data assess the occurrence and rate of denitrification at the aquifer scale.denitrification gene abundance but notgenera correlate with isotopic values.gene information characterizes the oc- currence of denitrification near the well.isotopic and gene information contrib-ute to the design of induced attenuation.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 20 july 2017received in revised form 2 september 2017accepted 3 september 2017available online 26 september 2017 editor d. barcelokeywords nitrate groundwater denitrification isotopesdenitrifying genes osonaa b s t r a c t natural attenuation processes alleviate the impact of fertilization practices on groundwater resources.

for instance according to the d18ono3 enrichment factor samples spt-001 tor-013 and smc-001 present a degree of denitrification lower than 10 smc-002 approximately of 15 and smc-037 smc- 025 and mnl-019 a degree that can be even higher than 25. such de- nitrification percentages are more conservative than those using the en- richment factors estimated by  which would give a rank between 12 and 50.furthermore the plot between d15nno3 and no- in logarithm scale differentiates between each of the two geographical zones being their samples properly aligned following a denitrification trend of slope close to that of the nitrogen enrichment factor en  - 26.30 b. this result is particularly interesting from the hydrodynamic per- spective as it distinguishes two distinct nitrate source areas the ne area located in the hills with a lower nitrate input and the sw area lo- cated in the basin with a larger proportion of arable land and therefore a larger manure input that results in higher nitrate concentrations.

in this paper we investigate the contribution of both approaches to describe denitrification in a con- solidated rock aquifer limestone and marls with a porosity related to fracture networks located in the north- eastern sector of the osona basin ne spain.isotopic methods indicated the origin of nitrate fertilization using manure and that denitrification occurred reaching a reduction of near 25 of the nitrate mass in groundwater.

mean nitrate values around 70 mgl in the sw zones  are considerably lower than the high nitrate concentrations registered in shallow wells and natural springs   supporting the mentioned dilu- tion process.the d15nno3 and d18ono3 isotopic signatures of no- in groundwaterprovide evidence of denitrification.

nitrate content in groundwater is easily above the 50 mg no3l limit for drinking reaching up to 500 mg no3l in some wells  .

mean nitrate concentration in the ne zone wells is of23 - 2 mgl and in the sw zone wells of 71 - 7 mgl.

however in samples where noszii was present this gene appeared at higher concen- trations than noszi mann whitney test p b 0.05. in all wells gene copy abundance values were similar to those found in other groundwater studies  and lower than those found in other environments characterized by higher concentra- tions of organic carbon such as constructed wetlands estuaries and ag- ricultural soils  .in general 16s rrna gene correlated positively spearman's correla-tion p b 0.01 with all functional genes except nirk indicating that the relative abundance of potential denitrifiers remained constant in the studied wells .

moreover wells with higher nir abundance were negatively correlated to oxygen concentration and ph which agrees with several studies at different environments includ- ing groundwater  .similarly to what has been observed for qnirs  qnirk the ratioqnirs  qnirkqnoszi  ii a proxy of n2o accumulation  was higher in the sw zone wells .

osona has been classified as nitrate vulnerable zone according to the nitrate directive directive 91676ec.the geological setting of the osona region consists of a sequence of paleogene sedimentary layers with a total thickness of approximately 1500 m which overlies the igneous and metamorphic rocks of the hercynian basement .

nitrate stable isotopes identify the source of nitrate as organic manure and allow the estima- tion of the degree of denitrification.

the studied area could be divided in two zones with distinct agricultural pressures and consequently nitrate concentrations in groundwater.

in front of the resilience and persistence of nitrate in groundwater due to ancient and current fertilization practices in agri- cultural areas  the occurrence of natural attenua- tion processes mainly due to denitrification  must be identified and the conditions under they exist should be maintained or enhanced.

therefore denitrification studies gain importance as a means to understanding the management of nitrate pollution.nitrate mass removal in groundwater can occur by autotrophic or heterotrophic denitrification depending on the availability of organic matter in the environment and redox conditions.

there are evidences that reduction of nitrate by fe2 can occur either biotically or abiotically in groundwater.

besides sul-cl- is plotted to analyse the possible origin of na a. when groundwater hydrochemistry is driven by calcitedolomite and gyp- sumanhydrite dissolution the amount of ca2 and mg2 in meqlcompensates the hco- and so2- concentrations and samples tend to34phate and nitrate do ec also show a notable difference between those zones.

