intriguingly recent evidence shows that antimicrobial peptide-producing coagulase-negative staphy- lococci can be missing in ad and recolonization of skin of ad patients with antimicrobial-producing s. epidermidis and s. hominis significantly reduced s. aureus levels already 24 h after application .commensal microbes can also directly act on keratinocytes by releasing a collection of immune-modulatory molecules with tolerogenic or proinflammatory properties .

staphylococcal virulence genes such as ssl3 or tir counteract the lipopeptide-induced hbd-3 expression and nf-kb activation in order to escape from the host response.4 damage of the epithelial barrier for example during ad flares leads to overgrowth of s. aureus and subsequent loss of microbiome diversity both leading to further enhancement of skin inflammation.5 s. aureus imposes hypoxic stress on keratinocytes which induces hif-1a in order to guarantee the metabolic demands for sufficient host defense.6 s. aureus is able to circumvent host innate defense by various escape mechanisms most of them targeting the nf-kb signaling axis in order to prevent host defense.s.

we further highlight the virulence factors of s. aureus that especially contribute to colonization of patients with epithelial barrier defects whereas healthy skin does not seem to offer favorable conditions for s. aureus colonization.keratinocytes as initial sensors of infectionthe sensing receptorskeratinocytes are the main constituents in the epidermis - a continuously self-renewing epithelium which consists of four distinct layers characterized by the differentiation status of the keratinocytes the undifferentiated basal layer the stratum spinosum the further differentiated stratum granulosum and the stratum corneum with dead corneocytes.

additionally the structure and degree of acylation of bacterial lipoproteins influences the consecutive immune response and the efficiency of s. aureus skin colonization and persistence .tlrs and nod receptors play a critical role in ad pathology responsiveness of tlr2 to s. aureus products seems to be lower in ad skin which might be due to a tlr2 polymorphism arg753gln in some ad patients located within the intracellular part of the receptor diminishing intracellular signaling.

s. aureus infection of the skin imposes metabolic stress on keratinocytes that promotes hif1aactivation glycolysis and a proinflammatory response and drives keratinocyte defense against s. aureus infection .

we found that s. epidermidis and its secreted factors elicit a protective immune response in keratinocytes preventing s. aureus skin colonization which is however dependent on the integrity of the epithelial barrier .

lipopeptides isolated from s. epidermidis are able to induce tlr2-mediated hbd-2 and hbd-3 expression in primary human keratinocytes and inhibit the growth of s. aureus .

interestingly overabundance of cutaneous s. aureus especially during ad flares is associated with loss of microbiome diversity indicating that the skin microbiome shapes s. aureus skin colonization .s.

together these aggressive virulence factors distinguish s. aureus from innocuousskin commensals and allow s. aureus to get access to deeper layers of the skin.s.

several other s. aureus moleculessuch as the t-cell activating superantigen toxins contribute to s. aureus-mediated skin inflammation .s.

this review highlights recent advances in understanding how keratinocytes as sessile innate immune cells orchestrate an effective defense against s. aureus in healthy skin and the mechanisms leading to an impaired keratinocyte function in ad patients.c 2017 japanese society for investigative dermatology.

nod2 responds mainly to peptidoglycan from gram-positive bacteria such as s. aureus.

mice deficient in tlr2 were shown to be highly susceptible to s. aureus systemic infections leading to sepsis .

this mutation correlated to increased skin infections with s. aureusand was associated with a more severe phenotype of ad .

this indicates that most likely innate immune sensing of microbial products which are poten- tially involved in ad pathology involves not just one tlr ligand but a whole array of potential ligands that signal via different prrs transmitting different innate immune signals.the intracellular signaling machinerybinding of s. aureus lipoproteins to tlr2 homo- or heterodimers results in a whole cascade of signaling events translating via the intracellular adapter myeloid differentiation factor 88 myd88 inactivation of nf-kb signaling and induction of proinflammatorycytokine and antimicrobial peptide amp expression .

