among these are the multispecific transporters organic anion transporter 1 oat1 slc22a6 originally nkt and its close homolog oat3 slc22a8 which are abundantly expressed on the basolateral membrane of pt cells as well as several other epithelial tissues and which together represent two of the most important transporters involved in the renal uptake and excretion of a wide variety of drugs exogenous toxins nutrients and endogenous metabolites including uremic toxins  .oat1 and oat3 have previously been shown to interact with many of these uremic toxins and solutes in vitro and considerable in vivo data indicate that the oats also handle many endogenous metabolites including a number of uremic toxins andor retention solutes -.

moreover if basolateral oat1 and oat3 are blocked by a com- bination of gene deficiency and probenecid apical extrusion transporters such as mrps would not significantly come into play for organic anion uremic toxins in the blood.since both of these transporters mediate the pharmacokinetics of a wide variety of drugs the data raises the possibility that drugs that compete for transport via oat1 and oat3 with the uremic toxins have the potential to induce alterations in the levels of the toxins.

since the endogenous metabolites we are discussing are those which are accumulating in the plasma of the oat3ko treated with probenecid the inhibition of these transporters is likely to be less of a concern.moreover the likelihood that the changes we are observing are due to probenecid-mediated inhibition of organic anion transporters other than oat1 such as urat1 rst seems low since metabolomics studies of the knockout and extensive in vitro studies of urat1 rst in relation to uremic toxins do not support the view that it transports any uremic toxin other than uric acid  and the many in vivo studies of oat1 and oat3 knockouts are quite consistent with in vivo probenecid data.

openreceived 17 january 2017accepted 30 may 2017 published xx xx xxxxkey role for the organic anion transporters oat1 and oat3 in the in vivo handling of uremic toxins and soluteswei wu1 kevin t. bush2  sanjay k. nigam123in vitro data indicates that the kidney proximal tubule pt transporters of uremic toxins and solutes e.g.

oat1 treatment with probenecid should inhibit basolateral organic anion uptake mediated by oat1 and lead to the accumulation of these molecules in the plasma poten- tially allowing for identification of the uremic toxins with which the transporters interact.table 2. uremic toxinsretention solutes accumulating in the plasma of chemical double knockout oat3ko treated with probenecid versus untreated oat3ko.

drug metab dispos 5 82-90 1977.ahn s. y. eraly s. a. tsigelny i.  nigam s. k. interaction of organic cations with organic anion transporters.

decreased renal organic anion secretion and plasma accumulation of endogenous organic anions in oat1 knock- out mice.

impaired organic anion transport in kidney and choroid plexus of organic anion transporter 3 oat3 slc22a8 knockout mice.

organic anion transport in choroid plexus from wild-type and organic anion transporter 3 slc22a8-null mice.

am j physiol renal physiol 294 f867-873 doi2008.vanwert a. l. bailey r. m.  sweet d. h. organic anion transporter 3 oat3slc22a8 knockout mice exhibit altered clearance and distribution of penicillin g. am j physiol renal physiol 293 f1332-1341 2007.vanwert a. l. srimaroeng c.  sweet d. h. organic anion transporter 3 oat3slc22a8 interacts with carboxyfluoroquinolones and deletion increases systemic exposure to ciprofloxacin.

it is important to note that oat3 has been shown to have a greater capacity than oat1 to interact with cationic com- pounds possibly including tmao .we have analyzed the in vivo roles of renal proximal tubule organic anion transporters oat1 and oat3 individually and in combination in mediating the uptake and excretion of uremic toxins and uremic retention solutes.

nevertheless the finding here of increased plasma levels of tmao in the oat3kos would appear to indicate that renal uptake of endogenous tmao from the plasma is directly or indirectly mediated via this basolateral organic anion transporter.

here using a more comprehensive metabolomics analysis levels of over 90 reported uremic toxins and uremic retention solutes were analyzed from the plasma of oat1ko and oat3ko animals as well as from oat3ko mice treated with probenecid an inhibitor of oat-mediated transport chemical double knockouts.resultsdespite clearly functioning as drug transporters considerable in vitro and in vivo data indicate that oat1 and oat3 also handle many endogenous metabolites including a number of uremic toxins andor retention solutes - .

for example kynurenine methionine and orotate whose concentration was found to be altered in previous metabolomics analyses  also accumulated in the plasma of the oat1kos studied here table 1. on the other hand analysis of the oat3ko revealed considerably more alterations than previous attempts including significant increases in the plasma concentration of numerous uremic toxinsretention sol- utes among them trimethylamine n-oxide tmao indoxyl sulfate p-cresol sulfate and 3-carboxy-4-methyl- 5-propyl-2-furanpropanoate cmpf table 1. taken together with in vitro data supplemental table  the new in vivo metabolomics data showing the plasma accumulation of a number of uremic toxins provide strong support for the notion that oat1 and oat3 independently play an important role in the uptake and handling of a wide variety of water soluble and protein-bound uremic toxinsretention solutes   .

nevertheless there were a group of toxinssolutes which only show a significant level of accumulation in theplasma when both transporters were inhibited table  suggesting that both of the transporters contribute to the uptake and elimination of these molecules.although we cannot absolutely exclude minor effects of probenecid on other transporters such as urat1 rst and mrps based on available data it seems likely that oat1 is likely to be the major transporter affected by treatment of the oat3ko with probenecid.

