A more detailed analysis shows that within the Clostridiaceae family Clostridium and unclassified Clostridiaceae were positively correlated to faecal dry matter 0.66 and crude protein content of the diet and negatively correlated with crude fat content -0.66 of the diet and .Erysipelotrichaceae were positively correlated with total protein and fat excreted 0.84 metabolites of protein digestion e.g.

We observed a positive correlation between Clostridiaceae and dietary protein content and protein digestibility and a negative correlation with faecal protein content.

In kittens the abundance of Bacteriodes is unaffected by a low carbohydrate-high protein diet compared to high carbohydrate-moderate protein diet  however in older cats fed similar diets Bacteriodes were significantly higher in cats fed high carbohydrate-moderate protein diets .

A high positive correlation was observed between Clostridiaceae and crude dietary protein content and crude protein digestibility 0.84 and gross dietary energy content and faecal score 0.77 and energy digestibility 0.70 and a weaker positive correlation with fat digestibility 0.35 .

In contrast Clostridiaceae were negatively correlated with total protein and fat excreted and faecal output -0.70 and metabolites of protein digestion e.g.

Erysipelotrichaceae were negatively correlated with crude protein content of the diet and crude protein digestibility -0.77 faecal health score -0.70 gross energy content of the diet -0.63 energy digestibility -0.63 and fat digestibility -0.14 were observed .

Although no studies have addressed the impact of dietary protein levels and microbiota composition in dogs in cats both Clostridiaceae and Clostridium are higher with high protein diets    .

Surprisingly few studies have investigated the impacts of dietary protein on microbial composition in humans   with the impacts of dietary protein on Clostridium not reported  .

protein content of the diet apparent protein digestibility in the intestinal tract.

However the abundances of Allobaculum and Unclassified Erysipelotrichaceae were higher in cats fed diets containing moderate-high levels of dietary protein suggesting that they may be affected by dietary protein .In humans Erysipelotrichaceae have been associated with a number of diseases such as inflammation-related intestinal disease and metabolic disorders .

