A new member from the new family Peptoniphilaceae was isolated during this study that could not be identified by matrix-assisted laser desorptionionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry screening on a Microflex spectrometer Bruker Daltonics Leipzig Germany from a vaginal sample of a 26-year-old French woman suffering from bacterial vaginosis in the hospital Nord in Marseille France.

This value was lower than the 95 16S rRNA gene sequence threshold pro- posed by Stackebrandt and Ebers to define a new genus without carrying out DNA-DNA hybridization and classifies it as a new genus within the Peptoniphilaceae family phylum Fir- micutes first created in 2014 .

It is also Gram-stain-positive non-motile non-spore-forming and also shows a negative catalase activity .Strain Marseille-P2746T has 10 16S rRNA gene sequence divergence with its closest phylogenetic neighbour  so we propose the creation of a new genus named 'Khoudiadiopia' gen. nov. khou.dia.dio'pia N.L.

nov. the type species of the new genus 'Khou- diadiopia' gen. nov.New Microbe and New Infect 2017 19 60- 61c 2017 The Authors.

'Khoudiadiopia massiliensis' gen. nov. sp.

Diop D. Raoult F. Fenollarand P.-E. Fournier1 Aix-Marseille Universite Institut hospitalo-universitaire Mediterranee-infection URMITE UM63 CNRS 7278 IRD 198 Inserm U1095 Marseille France and 2 Campus International UCAD-IRD Dakar SenegalAbstractWe report the main characteristics of 'Khoudiadiopia massiliensis' gen. nov. sp.

Strain Mar- seille-P2746T is the type strain of 'Khoudiadiopia massiliensis' gen. nov. sp.

'Khoudiadiopia massiliensis' gen. nov. sp.

Phylogenetic tree highlighting the phylogenetic position of 'Khou- diadiopia massiliensis' gen. nov. strain Marseille-P2746TT relative to other close species.

The scale bar indicates a 2 nucleotide sequence divergence.Nucleotide sequence accession numberThe 16S rRNA gene sequence was deposited in EMBL-EBI under Accession number LT598561.Deposit in a culture collection'Khoudiadiopia massiliensis' gen. nov. sp.

