here we review the background of the u.s. food and drug administration fda regulation of fmt as well as fmt donor selection and laboratory screening recommendations.stool banks and food and drug administration regulation of fecal transplantationin may 2013 the fda announced that fmt would be regulated as an investigational new drug ind due to its use for the treatment of disease and the absence of large randomized control studies supporting its efficacy and safety  .

the 2011 fmt workgroup recommendations amsterdam protocol 2013 society consensus rec- ommendations donor screening protocol from an ibd fmt clinical trial 2015 aga recommendations and openbiome routine screening practices as of september 2016 are summarized in to .after initial donor selection with screening questionnaires with or without physical examination potential donors should undergo a battery of serologic and stool tests to rule out potentially transmissible infectious diseases.

minireviewlaboratory testing of donors and stool samples for fecal microbiotatransplantation for recurrent clostridium difficile infectiona emma m. neishb nancy s. millerc tanvi dhered eileen m. burde cynthia carpentieria kaitlin l. sitchenkoa colleen s. kraftaedivision of infectious diseases emory university atlanta georgia usaa emory university atlanta georgia usab department of pathology boston university boston massachusetts usac division of digestive diseases emory university atlanta georgia usad department of pathology emory university atlanta georgia usaeabstract fecal microbiota transplantation is an efficacious and inexpensive ther- apy for recurrent clostridium difficile infection yet its safety is thought to depend on appropriate fecal donor screening.

however a recent study of detection of c. difficile in asymptomatic patients suggestedtable 3 recommended stool testing for potential fecal donorsaajscr joint society consensus recommendations to the fda for fecal donor selection and screening -- recommendation not noted in article  recommended or routinely performed test oe options equally reasonable  test should be considered on a case-by-case basis as suggested by exposure status of donor and immune status of recipient  h. pylori antigen testing recommended for upper routes of fmt.beia enzyme immunoassay gdh glutamate dehydrogenase mrsa methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus vancomycin-resistant enterococci.cjscr joint society consensus recommendations to the fda for fecal donor selection and screening.a very similar negative predictive value of gdh compared to a commercial nucleic acid amplification test naat 99.3 versus 99.9 respectively .

this minireview summarizes fda regulatory changes principles of donor selection and recommended laboratory screening practices for fecal microbiota transplantation.keywords clostridium difficile fmt fecal microbiota transplantation gut microbial therapeutics microbiome stool donor screeninghe intestinal microbiota is composed of a diverse array of microorganisms that play a vital role in metabolism immune function and gut homeostasis  .

of donors excluded based on the results of stool or blood testing common reasons for exclusion includedtable 1 recommended fecal donor selection criteriaaajscr joint society consensus recommendations to the fda for fecal donor selection and screening oe options equally reasonable  recommended or routine practice -- method or recommendation not noted in article or not applicable  could be considered on case-by-case basis as suggested by exposure status of donor and immune status of recipient  donors were excluded if they had traveled within the prior 6 months to areas endemic for diarrheal illness  donors excluded if any history of travel to regions with high risk of acquiring infectious pathogens endemic to the area  no date of last antibiotic use specified  dietary screening not further specified.bi.v.

however given the reported exclusion of donors based on viral testing of stool donor fecal samples further study in this area may serve to expedite the preparation of fecal material for fmt  .

the reference method c.table 2 recommended blood testing for potential fecal donorsaajscr joint society consensus recommendations to the fda for fecal donor selection and screening  treponema pallidum testing with rapid plasma reagin or treponema pallidum particle agglutination assay  recommended or routinely performed test  t. pallidum screen is performed as cascade with reflex to rapid plasma reagin rpr -- recommendation not noted in article  test should be considered on a case-by-case basis as suggested by exposure status of donor and immune status of recipient  cytomegalovirus igg and igm  epstein-barr virus viral capsid antigen vca igm vca igg vca and anti-epstein barr nuclear antigen ebna  total hepatitis a antibodies and if positive also hepatitis a igm  hepatitis b surface antigen and core antibody igmigg  hepatitis b surface antigen and surface antibody  hiv-1 p24 antigen test also included  entamoeba histolytica serum latex agglutination and dipstick.bhtlv human t-cell lymphotrophic virus esr erythrocyte sedimentation rate crp c-reactive protein.difficile toxigenic culture has become largely obsolete due to barriers of cost and longer turnaround times and many laboratories now rely on commercial antigen detection assays that target c. difficile common antigen and toxin andor molecular assays that detect the c. difficile tcda or tcdb gene.

however regulation of this process is in transition and there is variation in donor screening practices which can present challenges to microbiology laboratories.prior to the ability to culture for c. difficile fecal microbiota transplantation fmt was occasionally used in humans to treat enterocolitis that was presumed to be due to staphylococcus species .

an fmt national registry has recently been spearheaded by the aga to assess the short- term and long-term up to 10 years of patient-reported follow up safety of fmt with secondary objectives of evaluating the efficacy of fmt practice in the united states c. kelly warren alpert medical school of brown university personal com- munication.

in reports from openbiome published results of donor screening in a trial of fmt for ibd and another trial of fmt for rcdi 3 10 and 32 of potential donors respectively ultimately met criteria for donation    .

depending on the planned study indication review by the fda may include recommendations for additional blood or stool testing of donors specific to that study.donor stool screening and the clinical microbiology laboratoryas fmt became more frequently utilized during this past decade requests to perform donor stool screening presented clinical laboratories with an array of consid- erations.

this joint society consensus guidance built on prior recommendations from the fmt workgroup .the fda and 2013 joint professional society consensus recommendations have suggested that fecal donors should be known to the recipient or treating physician  .

the recom- mended serologic and stool tests for potential fecal donors are listed in and  respectively.in the united states if providers are considering fmt for indications other than rcdi an ind must be submitted to the fda as outlined by others .

fda guidance for regulation of this procedure is in flux but screening and manufacture of fecal material from asymptomatic donors present many challenges to clinical laboratories.

