the microbiome analysis focused on the mg and sg tissues due to their role in pathogen acquisition and transmission adult male ticks were analyzedbecause they are the primary means of anaplasma marginale transmission a pathogen we study in our lab but which is not the focus of this work which occurs when male ticks move from infected to naive hosts in search of mating opportunities dna preparation and sequencingadult male ticks were fed for 7 days and then dissected within 24 h. before dissection the ticks were surface ster- ilized by triple rinsing shaking ticks in tick wash 0.25 etoh 0.25 bleach for 1 min followed by a double 1 min rinse of ddh20.

lastly we compared the microbiome of individual ticks collected directly from the field with indi- vidual ticks reared one generation in the laboratory as well as comparing individuals with that of pooled ticks to develop an understanding of variation of individual ticks within the population.

currently tick microbiome studies have focused on either laboratory-reared ticks or field-collected ticks and without investigating the influence of lab rear- ing there is a potential disconnect between comparisons of microbiome data from lab and field collected ticks.

d. andersoni ticks have a multi-year life cycle and col- lecting adult ticks as soon as adult ticks begin to emerge immediately after spring snow clears allows us to sample the adult population for that given year.

variation be- tween individual ticks has been shown to occur in several species   however there has not been a compari- son between the compositions of the microbiome of indi- vidual ticks and pools of ticks population-level to find an ideal number of individuals that needs to be sampled to accurately represent the population as a whole.

our major findings includethe microbiome of laboratory-reared d. andersoni does not necessarily equate to the microbiome of d. andersoni collected from the field.the bacterial microbiome of d. andersoni stabilized when reared in the laboratory setting.the microbiome of burns and lake como populations illustrated that the bacterial microbiome of different d. andersoni populations change differently over multiple generations.the findings of our preliminary study comparing the microbiome of individual ticks collected directly from the field f0 to individual ticks reared one generation in the lab f1 demonstrated that there was not a difference between ticks removed from the field one generation.while more populations of d. andersoni need to be analyzed these results provide preliminary data for population-specific tick microbiomes which may be used in the future as a source of population identification through microbiome fingerprints.

re- cently our lab has demonstrated that the rocky mountain wood tick dermacentor andersoni has differences be- tween populations in microbial composition based on tis- sue type within the tick and geographic location of the population however we sampled ticks from the field once and the bulk of our data was collected from laboratory reared ticks  .

the ecology of the tick microbiome needs to be more fully understood if this type of work is to lead to manipulation of the microbiome as a novel method for biocontrol of tick-borne pathogens.to address this knowledge gap we compared the micro- biome of f1 d. andersoni ticks over multiple years from two ecologically different geographic locations to multiple generations of lab-reared ticks from the same populations to identify the relatability of the microbiome of lab to field tick populations.

for the purpose of this study we are considering f1 ticks as field ticks.for tick microbiome analysis a cohort of adult male ticks 100 individuals from each colony were fed on a holstein calf for 7 days and dissected to collect midguts mg and salivary glands sg for genomic dna isolation.

after field collection ticks were reared in the lab to produce f1 populations which allowed us to have sufficient ticks to work with.

however there were not any significantchange in the mg between 2012 and 2014 f2  1.81 p  0.101 however the sg experienced significant changes f2  4.65 p  0.012.the microbiome of lake como ticks differed each year the microbiome of lake como ticks was significantly different each sampling year in the sg f2  5.16 p  0.003 with minor but significant changes in the mg f2  3.53 p  0.017 fig.

we char- acterized the microbiome of pooled ticks population level as well as completed a preliminary analysis of indi- vidual ticks however as the individual tick results appear to show the microbiome composition of six individuals does not represent the microbiome of the population fig.

the microbiome of amblyomma maculatum has previously been shown to be different between lab colonies and field-caught ticks  though this study combined ticks from multiple locations and over two field collection years.

the consistency of the microbiome of the burns population is ideal for conducting lab-based microbiome experi- ments and will increase the reproducibility of these ex- periments however the ability to make comparisons between lab-reared and field caught ticks will depend on knowledge of the microbiome of wild-type ticks at the geographic location of the source of the tick population as the results showed there were highly significant differ- ences in the lake como populations when comparing lab and field tick microbiomes.understanding how the microbiome changes over time is one of the most important reasons for studying the ecology of the microbiome.

lastly these results provide a tem- plate for experimental design for future tick microbiome studies especially with regard to species level identifica- tion of the bacterial components of the microbiome.additional filesburns ticks was consistent over time whereas the micro- biome of lake como ticks varied significantly from year to year.

