however strengths of our study are the rigorous selection of the patients the ex vivo organ culture model we used the sampling of both ileal and left colon mucosa and the analysis of the effect of both the probiotic strain lc-dg and its pb on the inflamma- tory response of the intestinal mucosa.conclusionslc-dg and its pb attenuate the inflammatory mucosal response in an ex-vivo organ culture model of pi-ibs d. these findings provide biological plausibility to the therapeutically usefulness of this probiotic strain in the clinical setting of pi-ibs d. well designed and powered clinical trials are advisable to confirm the therapeutic efficacy in the real life management of these patients.abbreviationsfbs fetal bovine serum hc healthy controls ibs irritable bowel syndrome ibs-c irritable bowel syndrome ibs with constipation ibs-d irritable bowel syndrome ibs with diarrhea ibs-m mixed irritable bowel syndrome ibs-u unsubtyped irritable bowel syndrome il interleukin lc-dg lactobacillus casei dg lps lipopolysaccharides lps postbiotic pi-ibs d post infectious irritable bowel syndrome diarrhea predominant subtype pi-ibs post- infectious irritable bowel syndrome irritable bowel syndrome sibo small intestinal bacterial overgrowth tlrs toll like receptorsacknowledgmentsnot applicable.fundingsofar s.p.a.availability of data and materialsthe dataset generated during the present study is available upon reasonable request to the corresponding author prof. g. nardone.authors' contributionsdc study concept and design analysis and interpretation of data drafting of the manuscript statistical analysis.

and however the magni- tude of the inflammatory response of the intestinal mucosa that is the difference between lps-induced mrna levels and baseline values was greater in patients than in hc in both ileal and colonic mucosa il-1a p  0.0001 il-6 p  0.0001 and il-8 p  0.0001. incontrast the magnitude of the anti-inflammatory response did not significantly differ between hc and ibs-d irre- spective of mucosal site.in pi-ibs d the treatment of colonic biopsies with lc-dg significantly reduced the levels of all pro- inflammatory cytokines il-1 a p  0.002 il-6 p  0.0001 and il-8 p  0.0001 in respect to baseline.

similarly pb treatment was effective in reducing il-1a il-6 and il-8 mrna levels in both colonic p  0.0001 p  0.0001 and p  0.0001 respectively and ileal mucosa p  0.0001 p  0.0006 and p  0.0001 respectively.

cytokine response after stimulation with key commensal bacteria differ in post-infectious irritable bowel syndrome pi-ibs patients compared to healthy controls.

moreover growing data mainly obtained by the analysis of lactobacilli strains support the evidence that these beneficial effects may depend on secreted probiotic-derived factors recently identified as postbiotic pb mediators .methodsaim of this study was to evaluate the role of lactobacillus casei dg lc-dg and its pb in modulating the inflam- matory immune-response in an ex-vivo organ culture model of pi-ibs d. patients with a diagnosis of pi-ibs who met rome iii criteria for ibs-d were consecutively recruited among 92 patients with ibs referred to the gastroenterology unit of the university federico ii of naples from december 2014 to june 2015. a total of 10 out of 13 pi-ibs patients 6 males mean age 52 years ac- cepted to participate to the study.

in details tlr-4 protein expression was 7.4-folds higher in ileal mucosa p  0.0001 and 3-folds higher in colonic mucosa p  0.001 of pi-ibs d patients as compared with hc.

discussionin our study the baseline expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines namely il-1a il-6 and il-8 was significantly higher and that of il-10 significantly lower in the intes- tinal mucosa of pi-ibs d patients in respect to hc.an increased number of lamina propria lymphocytes and mrna levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines with a parallel decrease of mrna levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines have been described in colonic mucosa of pi-ibs as compared to non-pi-ibs and control subjects 14 moreover pi-ibs patients had an increased expression of il-1a mrna in terminal ileum and recto-sigmoidal mucosa these data support the hypothesis that the immune dysfunction and the dysregulated neuroimmune interactions may predispose individuals to ibs based on this pathophysiological model an event such asinfection would generate permanent disturbances of the gut microbiota with overgrowth of pathogens and a marked reduction in bacterial diversity.

20091361979-88.distrutti e monaldi l ricci p fiorucci s. gut microbiota role in irritable bowel syndromenew therapeutic strategies.

bmc gastroenterology 2017 1753doi 10.1186s12876-017-0605-xlactobacillus casei dg and its postbiotic reduce the inflammatory mucosal response an ex-vivo organ culture model of post- infectious irritable bowel syndromedebora compare alba rocco pietro coccoli debora angrisani costantino sgamato barbara iovine umberto salvatore and gerardo nardonebackgroundirritable bowel syndrome ibs is the commonest func- tional gastrointestinal disorder affecting up to 20 of the population in europe and the usa ibs does not predispose patients to severe illness but it deeply affects the quality of life and incurs a significant economic burden in both direct and indirect expenditures world- wide according to the symptom's pattern ibs is subcategorized into ibs with constipation ibs-c ibs with diarrhea ibs-d mixed ibs ibs-m and unsub- typed ibs ibs-u  gastrointestinal dysmotility visceral hypersensitivity brain-gut axis dysfunction and correspondence department of clinical medicine and surgery gastroenterology unit university federico ii of naples via s. pansini 5 80131 naples italyalterations in psychosocial or psychosomatic behavior have been implicated in the pathophysiology of ibs but the exact mechanisms remain largely undefined recently ibs research focused on causative factors such as low-grade mucosal inflammation and local immune activation both triggered by perturbations of gut microbiota.

global prevalence of and risk factors for irritable bowel syndrome a meta-analysis.

201210712-721.e4.canavan c west j card t. review article the economic impact of the irritable bowel syndrome.

gastroenterol rep. 2007156-65.chey wd kurlander j eswaran s. irritable bowel syndrome a clinical review.

review article evidence for the role of gut microbiota in irritable bowel syndrome and its potential influence on therapeutic targets.

2014391033-42.ford ac spiegel bm talley nj moayyedi p. small intestinal bacterial overgrowth in irritable bowel syndrome systematic review and meta- analysis.

201411497-505.spiller r garsed k. postinfectious irritable bowel syndrome.

