the intestinal microbiota from the control group hyperlipidaemia group and probiotic group were highly distinct in organismal structure with the samples forming two clusters that corre- sponded to a hyperlipidaemia group and a control-probiotic group fig.

plantarum hnu082 introduced more metabolic scfas which are also typical intestinal anti-inflammatory factors and potential biomarkers of hyperlipidaemia prevention.in conclusion to explore the potential prevention mecha- nism of probiotics against hyperlipidaemia we applied the metagenomic approach to assess the intestinal microbiome differences among control probiotic and hyperlipidaemia groups and we constructed a network including l. plantarum hnu082 bacterial species microbial metabolic pathways and hyperlipidaemia indexes to better explain the potential mecha- nism of hyperlipidaemia prevention.

in the same way the stably detected l. plantarum hnu082 in rat's gut was closely related to the abundant carbo- hydrate active enzymes and phosphotransferase system in the genome which helped the strain to colonize and gain advan- tage in intestinal nutrition competition.the present results revealed that consumed l. plantarum hnu082 regulated the intestinal microbiome and prevented the development of hyperlipidaemia in a rat model.

due to their probiotic properties lactobacillus and bifidobacterium have been widely used in the prevention and treatment of chronic diseases including liver disease8 cardiovascular diseases9 kidney disease10 and irritablefood  functionpaperbowel syndrome.11 several studies have reported a relationship between the intestinal microbiota and hyperlipidaemia and a few studies attempted to describe the effect of lactobacillus rhamnosus on the intestinal microbial diversity in a hyperlipi- daemic rat model.1213 however restricted by research tech- niques the probiotic-derived improvements to the microbiome and the microbial metabolites correlated with the preventive mechanism of hyperlipidaemia have remained undiscovered.a beneficial microbe lactobacillus plantarum hnu082 was obtained from a screen of 142 lactobacillus strains preserved in hainan university.

principal coordinate analysis based on unifrac distances indicated that the intestinal microbiota was profoundly altered in the hyperlipidaemia group and probiotic consumption regulated the bias in the intestinal microbial structure in hyperlipidaemia.

profoundly altered intestinal micro- biota in the hyperlipidaemia group was indicated and consum- ing the probiotic regulated the bias in the intestinal microbial structure in hyperlipidaemia.

the rats were subjected to a 1-week adaptation period with normal diet then they were randomly assigned to three groups including a control group 8 rats hyperlipidaemia group 8 rats and probiotic treat- ment group 14 rats.

the three groups were given the following diets 1 control group normal diet table s1 2 hyperlipidae- mia group high-fat diet 3 probiotic group high-fat diet  1 g powder consisting of a total of 8.0 log10 cfu of hnu082 daily from day 0 to 28. high fat diet is used to increase body fat including normal diet 78.8 ww egg yolk 10 ww lard10 ww cholesterol 1 ww and sodium cholate 0.2 ww.

the amount of ldl-c in probiotic group was significantly lower than that in control and hyper- lipidaemia group whereas the amounts of tg tc and hdl-c were significantly higher in hyperlipidaemia group fig.

the hyperlipidaemia rat model was established by providing a high-fat diet for 28 d. body weight and food con- sumption were measured weekly and daily respectively.faecal samples were collected from mice in the control and model groups on day 28. faecal samples were collected from week 0 to week 8 in the probiotic group for l. plantarum hnu082 detection.

the number of l. plantarum hnu082 in the faeces of the probiotic group on week 0 to week 8 was quantified by real-time pcr with the strain-specific primers fig.

on the other hand specific probiotics may enhance epithelial barrier function by modulating signalling pathways that lead to enhanced mucus or defence production.2627further analyses at the genus level revealed the specific genera changes after l. plantarum hnu082 consumption and significant increases in akkermansia and faecalibacterium were observed in the probiotic group.

bifidobacterium lactobacillus akkermansia and faecalibacterium were significantly increased in the probiotic group and the genera clostridium natranaerovirga and odoribacter were significantly increased in the hyperlipidaemia group.

3 the genera bifidobacterium lactobacillus akkermansia faecalibacterium atopobium andalloprevotella were significantly increased in the probiotic group and the genera clostridium natranaerovirga fervidicella roseburia gemella escherichiashigella and odoribacter were sig- nificantly increased in the hyperlipidaemia group.

metabolic butyrate in the gut is able to promote the growth and repair of intestinal villus enhance the intestinal immunity and inhibit the pathogenic bacteria thus a decline in butyric acid biosynthesis can cause a number of physiological disorders in the host.29 accordingly intestinal microbiome changes derived from the consumption ofl.

