the colicky infant showed 2-fold higher fecal lactate concentrations at 2 and 3 months 101.9 mm and 43.0 mm respectivelyfigure 2. a-c total counts of lub srb lub non-srb and lub non-srblub srb ratio in feces of infant crying 1 hd and infant crying 1 hd at 2 weeks 1 month 3 and 6 months.

it is therefore important to develop a mechanistic understanding of the complex interactions of bacterial species within the lub commu- nity and investigate the role of key players and metabolic balance on infant gut health.while dysbiosis of the adult gut microbiota has been linked to a wide range of diseases including ibd obesity and colon cancer little is known about the role of infant gut microbiota in gastrointestinal diseases.

during the first three years of life the infant gut microbiota evolves towards the bacterial composition and diversity found in adults .because most primary colonizers in the infant gut are lactate-producing bacteria lpb lactate must be effi- ciently reused to avoid potential negative consequences of lactate accumulation.

.using a simplified interaction model of three lub belonging to different metabolic groups our data provides insight into the metabolic interactions of predominant lub strains in infant gut microbiota.

our results suggest that an increase in h2 production by lub non-srb and a decrease in h2 utilization by lub srb could lead to acute h2 accumulation associated with crying and ic.our findings also revealed an intricate lactate metabolism in the infant gut involving production and uti- lization of lactate and h2 and eventually resulting in the accumulation of h2s.

interestingly the characterization of growth and metabolic activity of five lub strains representing the domi- nant lub groups in the infant gut in four media revealed five distinct metabolic profiles indicating the meta- bolic diversity of strains within the functional bacterial group sharing the same function of lactate utilization.

concentrations of acetate 70.2 vs. 42.1 mm propionate 18.5 vs. 0.1 mm and butyrate 9.9 vs.0.0 mm were also higher in the non-colicky infant compared to the colicky infant at 3 months.characterization of lactate-utilizing bacteria isolated from infant feces.

furthermore isolated strains representing the key lactate-utilizing species in the infant gut were selected to investigate their interactions in co-cultures by in vitro fermentation experiments under strict anaerobic conditions.resultsbaseline and gastrointestinal characteristics in infant cohort from birth to 6 months.

the colicky infant had a higher level of lub non-srb 6.7 vs. 3.9 log cfug feces and a lower level of lub srb at 2 weeks 5.5 vs. 8.4 log cfug feces compared to the non-colicky twin in the pair see supplementary fig.

none of the tested strains was able to metabolize acetate and resistant starch data not shown.in conclusion our data revealed distinct metabolic profiles for the five strains of lub tested including three strains isolated from infant feces.in vitro interactions between lub strains.

in this study we investigated the relationship of the lub community to infant gastrointestinal symptoms in a cohort of 40 healthy infants and elucidated supporting mechanisms by characterizing growth and metabolism of lub strains in single and co-cultures.

the high prevalence of flatulence stomach cramps crying hours colic episodes and h2 excretion exclusively within the first 2 months of life and their correlations suggests that this is an important time window when the metabolic production of gas can play a crucial role in infant gastrointestinal symptoms.in this study 3 months old infants crying more than 1 hd had higher ratio of lub non-srb which comprised the predominant h2-producing veillonella and h2-producing e. hallii to h2-utilizing lub srb.

therefore the impact of h2 or h2s on the host might vary between individuals.our in vivo data highlighted a complex lactate metabolism in the infant gut and correlations between lpb and lub.

crying infants showed significantly higher ratio of lub non-sulfate-reducing bacteria lub non-srb h2-producer to lub srb h2-utilizer at 3 months.

the culturable lub community consisted of lactate-utilizing sulfate-reducing bacteria lub srb and lactate-utilizing non-sulfate-reducing bacteria lub non-srb.

