these data clearly indicated that l. apinorum is the second fructophilic species within the genus lactobacillus.key words fructophilic lactic acid bacteria lactobacillus apinorum honeybees genomics reductive evolutionfructophilic lactic acid bacteria flab differ from other lactic acid bacteria lab in that they prefer d-fructose over d-glucose as a growth substrate growth on d-glucose is usually poor but is dramatically enhanced in the presence of external electron acceptors such as pyruvate oxygen and d-fructose 1 2. it is thus not unusual to isolate flab from fructose-rich environments including flowers fruits and the guts of fructose-feeding insects 1 3. the unique characteristics in flab were suggested to be obtained by a reductive evolution that took place to adapt to specific niches 4 5. all five species of the genus fructobacillus are representatives of this unique microbial group 2 6. until now lactobacillus kunkeei has been the only obligate flab species reported in the genus lactobacillus 1 5.lactobacillus apinorum was originally isolated from the honey stomach of apis mellifera the species is phylogenetically closely related to l. kunkeei as evident from the 98.9 16s rrna gene sequence similarity they share.

36 4 147-149 2017lactobacillus apinorum belongs to the fructophilic lactic acid bacteriashintaro maeno1 leon dicks2 junichi nakagawa1 and akihito endo11department of food and cosmetic science tokyo university of agriculture 196 yasaka abashiri hokkaido 099-2493 japan2department of microbiology university of stellenbosch 7600 stellenbosch south africareceived march 7 2017 accepted may 2 2017 published online in j-stage may 17 2017potential fructophilic characteristics of lactobacillus apinorum originally isolated from the guts of honeybees apis mellifera were studied in the present study.

fructophilic characteristics are well conserved in its closest relative l. kunkeei 5 10. this would imply that fructophilic characteristics are shared in l. apinorum although only the type strain was assessed in the present study.

fructophilic characteristics of l. apinorum149table 1. number of genes used for metabolic pathways in l. apinorum l. kunkeei fructobacillus spp.

int j syst evol microbiol 64 3109-3119. endo a tanaka n oikawa y okada s dicks l. 2014. fructophilic characteristics of fructobacillus spp.

the species showed typical fructophilic growth characteristics i.e.

biochemical characteristics strongly supported classification of the species into fructophilic lactic acid bacteria flab.

however fructophilic characteristics of the species have not beencorresponding author.

in the present study biochemical and genomic characteristics of l. apinorum were studied focusing on its possible fructophilic characteristics.l.

the species shares the same habitats as l. kunkeei and fructobacillus and fructose- rich environments would thus lead fructophilic evolution to inhabitant lab as suggested in a previous study acknowledgementswe are grateful to ms. yuna kanatani department of food and cosmetic science tokyo university of agriculture for her technical assistance in the study of enzyme activities.

2016. genomic characterization of a fructophilic bee symbiont lactobacillus kunkeei reveals its niche-specific adaptation.

2012. characterization and emended description of lactobacillus kunkeei as a fructophilic lactic acid bacterium.

these characteristics are identical to those recorded for l. kunkeei and fructobacillus spp.

1. growth characteristics of lactobacillus apinorum jcm 30765t on glucose circle on fructose square on glucose in the presence of pyruvate triangle and on glucose under aerobic conditions cross.of nadh to nad when lab are grown in the presence of oxygen was also determined.

these results corresponded with those recorded for fructobacillus species 5 8. this agreed well with our previous finding that l. apinorum jcm 30765t lacks the adhe gene encoding adhe protein with bifunctional alcohol genomic data of l. apinorum fhon13t was obtained from the newly published genome database for lactobacilli daga dfast archive of genome annotation https dfast.nig.ac.jp the genes of the strain were used for cluster of orthologous groups functional classification and for prediction of metabolic pathways by using the kegg automatic annotation server as described previously l. kunkeei yh-15t type strains of the five fructobacillus spp.

