the consumption of the same fermented milk was also associ- ated with a decreased duration of upper respiratory tract infections in elderly subjects .the mechanisms behind such health improvement of respiratory infections induced by oral consumption of lactobacilli are not clearly understood.because the underlying mechanism cannot be addressed in human trials the development of a murine experimental flu infection model using an influenza a strain offers a well-defined system to investigate the impact of lactobacilli and their bacterial components on the control of viral infection as well as interactions with microbiota .interestingly the anti-inflammatory capacity of cell-wall components from selected lacto- bacilli was shown to be crucial for the regulation of intestinal inflammation occurring through host recognition of e bacterial peptidoglycan and nod2 signalling .in this report we present evidences that the l. paracasei cncm i-1518 strain provides a critical benefit in regulating airway tissue integrity and in orchestrating the pulmonary immune defense after experimental infection with influenza virus.resultseffects of l. paracasei on influenza-infected mice health statusto assess the impact of l. paracasei cncm i-1518 oral administration on resistance toward influenza infection we first focused on the health status evolution of mice receiving eitherl.

overall these results suggest that l. paracasei did not strongly modu- late gut microbiota before and after influenza infection.effects of l. paracasei peptidoglycans on influenza infected miceto address whether bacterial components could recapitulate l. paracasei protective effects mice were fed with purified peptidoglycan of l. paracasei cncm i-1518.

the substantial infiltration of cells in the lungs of l. paracasei-treated mice was not due to an influx of l. paracasei in the lungs as confirmed by pcr targeting specific l. paracasei cncm i-1518 crispr clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats .the increase of total cells in the lung at d0 was strain specific as the two others lactobacillus strains tested in the same conditions l. paracasei cncm i-3689 and l. rhamnosus cncm i- 3690 did not induced cells recruitment in lungs prior to influenza infection .flow cytometry analysis revealed a major increase in the number of all tissue resident or cir- culatory myeloid cells alveolar macrophages interstitial macrophages dendritic cells eosino- phils inflammatory monocytes patrolling monocytes and b cells after l. paracasei gavage and before the viral infection when compared to the control group .

we concluded that 7 days of l. paracasei feeding before infection changed the presence of ilc subsets but not cytokine expression and gener- ated more ifn-g producing ilc1 mainly nk cells and th2 cells during the late phase of influenza infection.effect of l. paracasei ingestion on gut microbiota compositionto decipher whether the observed effect of l. paracasei on health improvement and immunity could be linked to an indirect effect via the modulation of gut microbiota feces samples were collected at different time points of influenza infection.

thus oral administration of l. paracasei peptidoglycan partially induced the protective effects of the entire l. paracasei bacterium.discussionour results show that consumption of l. paracasei cncm i-1518 improve the health status of mice infected by influenza this general improvement manifested mainly by reduced weight loss and improved appearance evolution in the group fed with l. paracasei.

we did not observe significant differences in the others cytokines tested between the two groups.these results collectively indicate that oral administration of l. paracasei modified the pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine releases in the lungs before and after influenza infection.effect of consumption of l. paracasei on the recruitment and activation of immune cells in the lungsthe innate and adaptive immune compartments play a key role in both the initiation and the development of influenza virus-mediated inflammation .

mice were infected intranasally with influenza a h3n2 variant virus at day 0 and followed up to 10 days after viral infection .as expected prior to influenza intranasal infection the consumption of l. paracasei did not induce any significant changes on weight temperature and appearance of mice .

e viral loadmeasured with rtq-pcr at d7 or d10 post influenza infection in the lungs of mice fed with either l. paracasei n  15 or with pbs n  16. f. hemorrhagic lesion in the lungs of l. paracasei- or pbs fed mice at day 7 post influenza infection compared with non-infected mice.data are means - sem of each group of mice.

p0.05.consumption of l. paracasei initiated before influenza infection was associated with better health status in mice.in order to better characterize whether the observed l. paracasei-induced health improve- ment could be due to a local protective effect against influenza-induced gut mucosa damage histological analyses were conducted on gut tissues before and after influenza infection.

altogether the protective effects induced by l. paracasei cncm i-1518 in the influ- enza h3n2 experimental model appeared to be strain specific.effects of consumption of l. paracasei on cytokine profiles in the lungsto understand the beneficial effect of l. paracasei we next investigated the impact of the lacto- bacilli on the inflammatory status.

l. paracasei consumption seems to allow an early activation of pro-inflammatory cytokines il-1a il-1b and a massive recruitment of immune cells in the lungs after l. paracasei gavage and prior to influenza infec- tion.

viral load were also inferred from standard range realized by serial dilution of homoge- nized lung infected with a known concentration of h3n2 virus.detection of l. paracasei cncm i-1518 in the lungthe presence of living l. paracasei was performed by culture of lung suspensions on mrs agar plates 24h or 48h after oral gavage with l. paracasei.

research articlelactobacillus paracasei feeding improves immune control of influenza infection in micenouria belkacem12 nicolas serafini34 richard wheeler56 muriel derrien7lilia boucinha2 aure'lie couesnon28 nadine cerf-bensussan8 ivo gomperts boneca56 james p. di santo34 muhamed-kkeir taha1 raphae lle bourdet-sicard271 institut pasteur invasive bacterial infections unit paris france 2 bioaster paris france 3 innate immunity unit institut pasteur paris france 4 inserm u1223 paris france 5 institut pasteur unite' biologie et ge'ne'tique de la paroi bacte'rienne dept.

2017 lactobacillus paracasei feeding improves immune control of influenza infection in mice.

therefore we have investigated the mechanisms of protection conferred by l. paracasei cncm i-1518 strain in a mouse model of influenza infection.

