these earlier in vitro findings are also in contrast to more recent findings of echinocandin in vivo activity in murine and human studies of coccidioidomycosis .our study which evaluated a large number of clinical coccidioides isolates found a wide range of echinocandin mics and combined with more recent clinical reports suggests that this class may exhibit efficacy in the treatment of coccidioidomycosis.

elevated mics for the mold-active triazoles and amphotericin b were uncommon itraconazole 2 ugml 5486 1.0 posaconazole 1 ugml 4377 1.1 voriconazole 2 ugml 124991.2 and amphotericin b 2 ugml 11397 2.8.these results illustrate the relative frequency of elevated fluconazole mics encoun- tered in clinical coccidioides isolates and the in vitro superiority of newer mold-active triazoles.

despite the lack of large-scale susceptibility studies clinical experience suggests that higher fluconazole doses are often needed for a clinical response to be observed and doses of 800 mg for primary infection are now routinely recommended by some experts .together our results and those of the earlier studies suggest that the in vitro mics of coccidioides are similar to those of histoplasma and blastomyces mycoses for which fluconazole is not the suggested first-line option  .

susceptibilitylarge-scale evaluation of in vitro amphotericin b triazole and echinocandin activity against coccidioides species from u.s. institutionsgeorge r. thompson iiiab c nathan p. wiederholdd department of medicine division of infectious diseases university of california-davis medical center sacramento california usaa department of medical microbiology and immunology university of california- davis davis california usab pathogen and microbiome institute northern arizona university flagstaffarizona usac fungus testing laboratory department of pathology university of texas health science center at san antonio san antonio texas usadabstract large-scale testing of coccidioides isolates has not been performed and the frequency of clinical isolates with elevated amphotericin b or triazole mics has not been evaluated.

clinical evaluation of these agents in coccidioidomycosis has consisted almost exclusively of salvage studies   with the exception of a single compar- ative clinical trial .

posaconazole gm mics 0.141 ugml were similar to those of voriconazole and were significantly lower than those of fluconazole itraconazole and amphotericin b p  0.0001. the differences between posaconazole and voriconazole gm mics were not significant p  0.98.the mic ranges for each antifungal were wide .

we commonly found elevated fluconazole mics with very high mics 64 ugml in a number of isolates.

future work focusing on outcomes in patients with infection from isolates with elevated mics and the molecular mechanisms responsible for in vitro resistance should also be performed.acknowledgmentsthis study was performed using existing departmental funds.g.r.t.

our in vitro data providetable 2 number of mic values for each antifungal agent tested at specific concentrationsa- not tested.additional support for the higher fluconazole doses often recommended in the treat- ment of coccidioidomycosis.the mold-active triazoles compared with fluconazole have favorable in vitro activity against coccidioides spp.

this is in contrast to prior in vitro reports suggesting that echinocandins have limited in vitro activity against coccidioides spp.

additional correlation with patient outcomes to determine the relevance of elevated mics in coccidioides isolates is needed.keywords coccidioides coccidioidomycosis fluconazole itraconazole posaconazole voriconazole amphotericin b flucytosine caspofungin antifungal susceptibility testing endemic mycosesoccidioidomycosis is an invasive fungal infection caused by the dimorphic fungi coccidioides immitis and coccidioides posadasii.

additionally we report for the first time to our knowledge the distri- bution of triazole mics likely to be encountered during the care of patients with coccidioidomycosis.

however the epidemiology and mechanisms of resistance in such isolates and which alternative agents maintain in vitro activity when these isolates are encountered have not been determined .we assessed the susceptibility profile of a large collection of coccidioides isolates received by the fungus testing laboratory university of texas health science center at san antonio between 2001 and 2015. during this period 581 clinical coccidioides isolates were received from disparate geographic origins within north america and susceptibility testing was performed when they were received.

treatment of patients with coccidioidomycosis has largely consisted of therapy with amphotericin b formulations for those with severe disease or a triazole most commonly fluconazole forthose with mild to moderate disease .this work was presented in part at asm microbe boston ma 2016 .despite the significant clinical impact of this infection large-scale susceptibility studies have not been presented.

2016 infectious diseases society of america idsa clinical practice guideline for the treatment of coccidioidomycosis.

