acta paediatrica issn 0803-5253 regular articlelate preterm birth has direct and indirect effects on infant gut microbiota development during the first six months of lifem forsgren miirfoutu.fi1 e isolauri12 s salminen3 s rautava12department of paediatrics university of turku turku finlanddepartment of paediatrics and adolescent medicine turku university hospital turku finland 3.functional foods forum university of turku turku finlandkeywordsantibiotics caesarean section gut colonisation intestinal microbiota late preterm neonatecorrespondencemira forsgren bm department of paediatrics and adolescent medicine turku university hospital kiinamyllynkatu 4-8 20520 turku finland.tel 358443334212  fax 358-2-3131460 email received24 october 2016 revised 19 december 2016accepted 14 march 2017. doi10.1111apa.13837abstractaim preterm infants display aberrant gut microbial colonisation.

in the multivariable model neonatal antibiotic exposure was associated with reduced prevalence of b.bifidum b. breve b. lactis and b. longum table 2. caesarean delivery as the mode of birth was associated with the decreased prevalence of b. catenulatum and b. longum but the increased prevalence of c. perfringens table 2. preterm birth affected gut microbiota develop- ment independently of the confounding factors table 2. in particular prematurity delayed intestinal bifidobac- terium colonisation and interestingly the effect of preterm birth on bifidobacteria appeared to be species-specific table 2. use of the specific probiotic lactobacillus rhamnosus exerted no significant effect on the prevalence of the gut microbes assessed in this study.discussionour study demonstrated significant differences in gut colonisation patterns between late preterm and full-term infants during the first six months of life.

as well as prematurity the mode of birth intrapartum and neonatal antibiotic exposure and the duration of breastfeeding had an additional impact on gut microbiota development.conclusion the gut microbiota composition was significantly different between late preterm and full-term infants at least six months after birth.

antibiotic exposure was common in late preterm infants and modulated gut colonisation but preterm birth also affected gut microbiota development independently.introductionpreterm birth accounts for 5-18 of all deliveries and is a leading cause of infant morbidity and mortality 1. the problem is expected to escalate as an increasing trend in preterm births has been reported particularly in industri- alised countries.

these sequelae may arise from prematurity per se or develop as a complication of neonatal intensive care suggesting a vicious circle of immature host defences and extensive environmental chal- lenges during a critical period of development.the gut microbiota development in preterm infants is different from that of term infants 2. it is not known whether the differences in gut colonisation patterns are a direct result of prematurity or mediated by detrimental environmental exposure including increased rates of cae- sarean section delivery and antibiotic use or various components of neonatal intensive care which often clusterin preterm infants.

early gut colonisation has been recog- nised to exert a significant impact on health and disease 3 and specific members of the infant gut microbiota including bifidobacteria clostridia and akkermansia muciniphila have been associated with subsequent development of atopic disease and allergy 45 as well as overweight and obesity 67. humans and microbes accomplish bidirec- tional exchanges of endocrine immune and neural signals with targets in metabolic immune humoral and neural pathways.

bifidobacteria are a major component of the gut microbiota in healthy breastfed infants 10. previous studies have demonstrated the significance of these gut bacteria in early infancy for the later risk of chronic diseases such as atopic disease 4 allergy 5 and obesity 67 in children.

it is of note that thedifferences in early gut microbiota composition between late preterm and full-term infants were still detectable six months after birth.previous studies have mostly provided data on gut microbiota composition in very low birthweight infantsduring their stay in the neonatal intensive care unit.

the differences in gut microbiota activity and their functional correlates in thehost in term and late preterm infants remain to be established in future studies.the mechanism underlying deviant gut colonisation resulting from prematurity irrespective of environmental exposures remains elusive.

given the recently discovered role of gut microbiota in the development of obesity and metabolic disease 3 it is conceivable that the increase in cardiometabolic risk factors observed in young adults born preterm and late preterm 19 may be at least partly mediated by the intestinal microbiota.while no effective means of preventing preterm birth are currently available there are measures that might attenu- ate the detrimental consequences of preterm birth on the gut microbiota.

we investigated whether the differences in gut microbiota between late preterm and full-term infants results from prematurity or external exposures.methods this study comprised 43 late preterm infants 3407-3667 and 75 full-term infants based on faecal samples collected following birth and at two to four weeks and six months of age.

logistic regression analyses were performed to determine whether the observed differences in gut microbiota were attributable to prematurity or perinatal exposure.results the prevalence of bifidobacteria differed in the intestinal microbiota of the full- term and late preterm neonates.

1103-11091103this is an open access article under the terms of the license which permits use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited and is not used for commercial purposes.bacterial colonisation may result in an increased risk of diseases such as atopic diseases autism spectrum disorders and metabolic disease including obesity and insulin resis- tance 3.the aim of this study was to investigate gut microbiota development during the first six months of life in late preterm infants compared to those born at full term.

specifically we aimed to establish whether the differences in gut microbiota development between late preterm and full-term infants were caused by prematurity or resulted from external factors during early life.methodsdesign and samplingthe study was based on the nutrition allergy mucosal immunology and intestinal microbiota research group's randomised controlled trials which evaluated the impact of prenatal probiotic supplementation in infants at high risk of abnormal early microbial contact.

exposure to intrapartum and neonatal antibi- otics as well as elective caesarean section as the mode of birth were less frequent in full-term than in late preterm infants.compositional development of gut microbiota in full-term and late preterm infantsthe intestinal microbiota in full-term infants was charac- terised by a high frequency of bifidobacteria following delivery.

