taken together these data demonstrate that dectin-2 recognizes commensal yeasts including s. cerevisiae and k. unispora through ca2- dependent glycan recognition.gut commensal yeasts stimulate mouse bmdcs in dectin-2 and syk-dependent mannercommensal yeasts and their components are increasingly recog- nized to stimulate host immune cells which is important for gut health and disease   .

taken together our data indicate that gut commensal yeasts induce tnfa and il-1b productionfrom bmdcs in dectin-2 and syk-dependent fashion.gut commensal yeasts induce lap and lc3 lipidation in bmdcs in a dectin-2-dependent mannersince previous studies suggest that pathogenic fungi c. albicans and a. fumigatus induce lap   we sought to test whether gut commensal yeasts also do so.

the commensal yeasts induced lap shown by the recruitment of lc3 to the internalized yeasts in wt bmdcs but not in e230 bmdcs.

cells were lysed and b-galactosidase activity was monitored by a colorimetric assay .flow cytometryfor the binding assay of yeasts to dectin-2-raw cells yeasts were suspended in pbs at 1 x 107 cellsml and fluorescently labeled with 10 ugml nhs-alexa647 for 1 h at 25degc.

to this end we incubated mouse bmdcs with alexa555-labeled yeasts and counted the number of fluorescent yeasts associated with the cell.

when these bmdcs were stimulated with living yeasts e230 bmdcs produced less amount of tnfa and il-1b suggesting that lap is requiredfor cytokine production in bmdcs in response to the com-mensal yeasts .

while the pfa-fixation of yeasts abrogated the il-1b response figure s4 in supplementary material these data suggest that the reduced cytokine produc- tion in e226 and e230 bmdcs was not due to the overgrowth of yeasts.

non-pathogenic commensal yeasts such as saccharomyces cerevisiae promote homeostasis in the gut whereas dysbiosis of the gut mycobiota is associated with inflammation.

mouse bone marrow-derived dcs bmdcs produced inflammatory cytokines tnfa and il-1b in response to the yeasts in a dectin-2 and spleen tyrosine kinase syk-dependent manner.

furthermore lc3 was activated by stimulation of bmdcs with the yeasts in a dectin-2 and syk-dependent manner.

when stimulated with yeasts e230 bmdcs produced significantly less amounts of tnfa and il-1b.

we found that mouse dectin-2 recognizes two human com- mensal yeasts s. cerevisiae and kazachstania unispora.

these yeasts induced the cytokines tnfa and il-1b from bmdcs in a dectin-2 and syk-dependent manner.

using a transgenic mouse strain with a mutation in a key autophagy gene atg16l1 whichis autophagy-active and lap-deficient atg16l1e230 thereafter called e230 we found that lap was required for the inflamma- tory cytokine production from bmdcs in response to the com- mensal yeasts.

consistently we found these yeasts induced lc3 activation and lap in a dectin-2-dependent manner.

