there are at least seven types of functional iecs--enterocytes goblet cells paneth cells microfold cells m cells enteroendocrine cells cup cells and tuft cells although the functions of the last two cell populations are not well understood .

inside the follicles a variety of immune cells including b cells t cells dendritic cells dcs and neutrophils orchestrate the immune response by presenting antigens secreting cytokines and producing antigen-binding antibodies .

though only a single layer of cells the intestinal epithelial cells iecs are the mainstay of the intestinal barrier and serve as a physical barrier .

among all these cell types enterocytes represent the absolute majority accounting for at least 90 of crypt cells or villus cells.

the turnover rate of iecs is high and the cells are renewed every 3-5 days in the mammalian intestine   with the exception being the paneth cells which have a life span of about 2 months.the iec lining is continuous and the contact between iecs is sealed by tjs .

several others have also reported on the various types of amps and their function in the microbiota  .intestinal epithelial cells compose the single layer of intestinal epithelium and the generation of new iecs from local intestinal stem cells is vital in maintaining the barrier function due to the high frequency of apoptosis and shedding of iecs .

proc natl acad sci u s a 2008 1055220858-63. domabbott na donaldson ds ohno h williams ir mahajan a. microfoldm cells important immunosurveillance posts in the intestinal epithelium.mucosal immunol 2013 64666-77. dovan der flier lg clevers h. stem cells self-renewal and differentiation in the intestinal epithelium.

goblet cells deliver luminal antigen to cd103 dendritic cells in the small intestine.

impressively in the intes- tine the front line of this barrier is maintained by only a single layer of specialized epithelial cells that are linked together by tight junction tj proteins.

enterocytes are absorptive cells and vital for nutrient uptake.

all epithelial cell types originate fromlgr5 intestinal epithelial stem cells which reside within the crypts .

goblet cells are the central cell type for the formation of mucus.

in addi- tion to gel-forming mucins there is another type of mucin that is in close proximity to epithelial cells called transmembrane mucins.

additionally the gut microbiota regulates the digestion and absorption of nutrients to supply energy to epithelial cells which are a major component of the physical barrier .

these diverse molecules form a complicated network to reduce the load of colonized bacteria and decrease the chance of contact between luminal antigens and host cells.

