they are known for their ability to adapt to environmental stressors includ- ing desiccation and extreme g radiation like in the case of the genus geodermatophilus several members of these black and thick-walled bacteria were isolated from arid soils from mont blanc snow containing saharan sand  and directly from sand sampled in the saharan desert further endospore-forming bacillus species are highly present in saharan sand and this genus was also frequently detected in our layer b samples.

the snowpit was carefully dug in order to maintain the stratigraphy of the snow layers and consisted of layer a snow that fell after the saharan dust event layer b saharan sand- containing snow clearly distinguishable by its light brown color and layer c snow that fell before the saharan dust event fig.

a snow sample set consists of three samples layer a--fresh snow above the saharan sand layer b--snow containing saharan sand and layer c--snow below the saharan sand layer fig.

elemental ratios are one of the best tools to reveal regional potential source areas of saharan dust particles  in this case the elemental mass ratios of snow samples containing dust ma289 and maj025 are within the intervals reported for the saharan desert table fig.

d snowpit 2 m depth consisting of layer a snow that fell after the saharan dust event layer b saharan sand-containing snow clearly distinguishable by its light brown color.

comparison of the sand-free snow layers a and c against the saharan sand-containing snow layer b. asterisks indicate presence among the most and general abundant families described for saharan sand collected in chad .

the african origin of these microbial communities is reflected in the high conformity of princi- pal bacterial and fungal genera described for the saharan desert  with those present in layer b. it is especiallynoteworthy that extremely stress-resistant bacteria and fungi were among the most abundant microbes present in the snow containing saharan sand.

west african soils primary the saharan desert are major sources of airborne dust that is frequently transported at high altitude over the atlantic and the european continent .

previous studies revealed that microorganisms transported with saharan dust can pro- voke several severe plant diseases .

to efficiently study the long-distance dispersal of microbes by large-scale desert dust events and their impact on distant ecosystems a collaborating effort of geologists atmospheric chemists and microbiologists was strongly requested .in winter 2014 a massive amount of saharan dust particles was mobilized and transported towards the western mediterranean basin fig.

resulting in the largest saharan winter dust event that was recorded at the italian climate observatory 7 up to that time.

on 14th of february a cyclonic depression generated over the southern morocco moved rapidly eastward to mauritania north mali and south algeria mobilizing a massive amount of saharan dust particles until 17th of february.

additional file figure s1 resulting in the largest saharan winter dust event ever recorded at the italian climate obser- vatory .

the saharan dust-rich snow layer was cov- ered by successive snowfalls starting 2 days later due to atlantic air masses and thus remained sealed be- tween two dust-free snow layers fig.

geochemical characterizations clearly showed that the chemical composition of the snow containing saharan dust differed from dust-free snow for higher concentrations of trace major and rare earth elements in particular regarding the very high concen- trations of crustal elements such as na mg k ca and fe additional file  figure s2.

