a significant reduction in total otus was observed for t4-t1 suggesting that some taxa were vulnerable to the cold shock but it is likely that these taxa were rare as this mortality did not alter the community's composition or evenness.in the heat shock but not in the cold shock treatment the speed of recovery following the disturbance varied and was dependent on the metrics used to assess it the number of potentially active bacteria returned to pre-disturbance levels by t25 in all soils while the community composition in soils exposed to heat at any point remained different from controls and showed no indication of recovery.

the application of a heat shock to soils with or without the initial heat shock resulted in similar successional dynamics but these dynamics were faster in soils with a prior heat shock.

soils that had been pre-exposed to a heat disturbance exhibited disproportionately larger shifts in community composition in response to a weaker cold disturbance than soils without this prior heat shock.implicationsour study reveals the complexities of soil microbial community recovery from disturbance and highlights the importance of considering a community's history when evaluating its resilience.

some taxa from cluster c remained at higher relative abundances throughout the rest of the experiment in soils without previous exposure to heat control-heat but their absence in soils pre-treated with heat heat-control heat-cold and heat-heat indicate that they were rapidly suppressed during soil colonization possibly by otus from cluster a. for example an otu from cluster c assigned to spore-forming sporosarcina increased in average relative abundance from 0.8 in controls to 5.7 4 days after heat disturbance and maintained this abundance on t18 for the control-heat treatment but had decreased to 1.6 in the heat- heat treatment at this time.

during the second phase almost all microcosms except controls were subjected to additional disturbances generating the following treatments 1 an additional heat shock heat-heat homogeneous compounded perturbation 2 a cold shock heat-cold mixed compounded perturbation3 no disturbance heat-control single perturbation 4 a heat shock control-heat single perturbation 5 a cold shock control-cold single perturbation or 6 control no perturbation followed by an additional recovery phase that lasted 25 days.

the decrease in otu richness and evenness remained significantly different from the control soils throughout the experiment except for the treatment heat-heat at t18.relative to the heat shock the cold shock was a minor disturbance.

in our system the lowered community diversity in soils pre-exposed to a heat shock relative to that in the undisturbed soil may have resulted in lowered numbers of competitors for the resources available after the heat shock and thus a faster transition toward the opportunists that are characteristic of the second successional stage.

thus a total of six treatments were applied heat shock-heat shock homogeneous compounded perturbationheat shock-cold shock mixed compounded perturbation heat shock-control single perturbation control-heat-shock single perturbation control-cold shock single perturbation control- control no perturbation.

by monitoring the soil bacterial community after either an extreme heat shock or a cold shock and prior or not to a heat shock we examined how such a compounded perturbationaffects secondary successions whether the identity of the legacy prior to perturbations i.e.

furthermore a strikingly different pattern was observed for the cold-shocked soils soils from the control-cold treatment showed no effect of the cold shock while soils from the heat-cold treatment exhibited the largest deviations in bacterial community composition of all treatments relative to the controls.

the effects in soils with prior disturbance were more severe however as in t1 soils from the heat- heat treatment exhibited average reductions of 42 p 0.001 and 23 p  0.001 in richness and evenness respectively.

the cold shock treatment consisted of placing jars in a 80c freezer for 6 h. soils were sampled 1 day prior to disturbance t0 as well as on days 1 4 11 18 and 25 days after disturbance t1 to t25 at each phase of the experiment.

to focus on the effect of the disturbances rather than environmental variability we set up soil microcosms and exposed these to a model disturbance that consisted of an initial heat shock along with unexposed microcosms followed by a period of recovery 25 days which allowed microbial communities to recolonize the soils in order to create a legacy.

the application of a cold shock had negligible effects on previously undisturbed soils but in combination with an initial heat shock caused the largest shift in the community composition.

surprisingly the cold shock whichhad weak effects on the community on its own had a drastic effect on soils with a prior heat shock suggesting a multiplicative effect of the two disturbances.

