this implies that a new strategy should be implemented for the molecular characterization of the core microbiota and which should not be solely based on taxonomic markers but should also be based on functional traits recruited by plants among microbial taxa even though the latter may differ between soils.the functional core microbiotait can be argued that plant-microorganism evolution favors the recruitment of microbial populations possibly belonging to different taxa according to the soil type but sharing the ability to ensure favorable functions for the host plant.

the microbiota is represented schematically by different items corresponding to individuals with different shapes corresponding to different populations the different colors green red and yellow correspond to replicators that are carried by different vehicles colored shapes.transmission and stability of the functional core microbiotathe fact that similar microbial functional groups are faithfully associated with individuals in various taxa ulva  bromeliads  humans  suggests that the functional core microbiota recruited by a given host is somehow stable over time.

microbial functions and less on the abiotic environment  including chemical inputs.vehicles of replicators of microbial origin impacting on plant fitnessnon-rhizospheric microbiotafunctional core microbiotaendophytesendosymbiontsplant nucleitransmission pathways of microbial functionsenvironmentalsocialparentalcytoplasmic chloroplastic or mitochondrialepigeneticgeneticfigure 4. vehicles and transmission pathways of replicators of microbial origin impacting on plant fitness.

showed that the host genotype hordeum vulgare had little impact on microbial taxonomical sequences defining here the taxonomic core microbiota but had a great impact on sequences with functional value defined here as the replicators of the functional core microbiota.

this implies that the microbial communities that roots recruit from a given soil microbial reservoir or microbiome see  can vary among plant genotypes and indeed each plant genotype teams up with a core range of microbial partners.

the core microbiota functions are coded by replicators distributed among microbial vehicles that can vary according to soils so that a functional core microbiota is likely to be associated to a given host whatever the soil.

opinionlet the core microbiota be functionalphilippe lemanceau1 manuel blouin1 2 yvan moenne-loccoz2the microbial community that is systematically associated with a given host plant is called the core microbiota.

this so-called functional core microbiota encompasses microbial vehicles carrying replicators genes with essential functions for holobiont i.e.

in this paper we argue that the functional core microbiota is in fact a basic component of plant functioning and success and therefore should be given first priority.the taxonomic core microbiotaplants are colonized by and interact with a high diversity of microorganisms.

we therefore argue for the key importance of a functional core microbiota - which can be defined as a whole set of microbial vehicles including replicators coding for essential functions for holobiont fitness.

the delineation of the functional core microbiota will depend on the physiology and ecology of the plant associated with the core microbiota.

we further argue that the functional core microbiota will be associated to these plants irrespective of the soil provided that its replicators are present within the rhizosphere microbial community even when the vehicles harboring them differ among soils.

such decoupling between phylogeny and function which at the scale of a given taxa is likely to concern pangenomic genes that mostly do not belong to the core genome has been evidenced for leaf-associated microbiota .the functional core microbiota could ensue from various evolutionary scenarios a-d in which the evolutionary pathways of plants and microorganisms are more or less tightly connected.

the microbiota is represented schematically by different items corresponding to individuals different shapes correspond to different populations different colors correspond to different replicators and colored items are vehicles carrying the corresponding replicators.rationale for a functional core microbiotathe presence of these host-associated microbial replicators coding for shared functions while being distributed among different genetic backgrounds i.e.

reported the presence of a core set of functional genes associated with microbial colonization of the roots of two plant species triticum turgidum and cucumis sativus grown in the same soil.

