levothyroxine therapy was the strongest contributor in a simplified model or  3.0.conclusionthe most important contributors for the development of sibo in ascending order are immunosuppression impairment of intestinal clearance and levothyroxine use but they do not sufficiently explain its emergence.key words bacterial overgrowth syndrome hydrogen breath tests immunosuppression intestinal motility hypothyroidismc the authors 2017. published by baishideng publishing group inc. all rights reserved.dant microbial growth in the small intestine1 under physiological conditions so that the development of sibo is usually seen to be associated with disorders of protective antimicrobial mechanisms anatomical abnormalities or motility disorders.

although the data is weak and contradictory reduction of the acid barrier function as suspected for atrophic gastritis34 use of proton pump inhibitors5 and gastrectomy67 is thought to lead to higher microbial loads in the small intestine.impaired intestinal clearancealthough several reviews highlight anatomic patho logies associated with small intestinal obstruction and stagnation for example strictures adhesions tumours of the small bowel duodenal and jejunal diverticula previous abdominal surgery such as blind loop syndrome after billrothii or rouxeny procedure or bariatric bypass surgery to be associated with sibo only very few or no data at all support these hypotheses.

otherwise little is known about the effect of drugs used to deteriorate intestinal motility even though narcotics have been identified as contributing to wards sibo16.impairment of immunological mechanisms data about the role of the immune system are alsosmall intestinal bacterial overgrowth sibo is defined as an increase in the number of bacteria in the upper gastrointestinal tract.

sibo small intestinal bacterial overgrowth.4.0 vs 1.2 while colonoscopy was performed more often in the nonsibo group 57.1 vs 65.4.suspected risk factor analysishypo-achlorhydria patients with a history of total gastrectomy were more likely to develop sibo 2.3 vs 0.7. the or was 3.45 table 2. current ppi therapy led to a higher sibo rate 40.0 vs 31.8 although the effect was small or  1.43.impaired bowel clearance - anatomical alte- rations and surgery overall abdominal surgery was not associated with a higher risk of sibo table 3. patients after gastrectomy and patients with ahistory of any resecting gastric surgery had a higher prevalence of sibo 6.9 vs 2.8 or  2.60. by contrast neither bilrothii resection nor the existence of blind intestinal loops exhibited a higher prevalence of sibo although the latter group showed a tendency 4.6 vs 2.5. loss of the ileocecal valve did not increase risk while a history of appendectomy occurred more often in nonsibo patients 8.2 vs 4.6 indicating a protective factor with an or of 0.46. on the other hand functional appendectomy including those patients with ileocecal resection did not show such an effect.

sibo small intestinal bacterial overgrowth.an or of 1.93 10.9 vs 5.9. cholecystectomy tended to be protective 4.6 vs 7.8. stenoses of the intestinal tract were associated with sibo 5.7 vs 1.8 with an or of 3.36.impaired bowel clearance - functionally impaired clearance impaired motility 9.7 vs 0.6gastroparesis 2.9 vs 1.5 and neuropathy 5.1 vs 2.4 but not vagotomy were associated with higher risks of sibo referring to table 3 the ors were 5.16 3.40 and 2.22 respectively.

exp b exponent b. a simplified model which included a leading factor of each pathophysiological pathway revealed that in ascending order impaired immune response impaired intestinal clearance and hypothyroidism are the key pathways for the development of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth.hypo-achlorhydriaboth ppi therapy and even more predominantly gastrectomy were significantly associated with sibo table 2. these findings coincide with results in the literature although glucose hydrogen breath tests usually failed to find an association between sibo and ppi therapy57.

consequently gastrectomy was a stronger predictor of sibo in binary regression analysis than ppi therapy or 3.6 vs 1.5. moreover the altered anatomical situation with the establishment of blind loops might play a role in the development of sibo after gastrectomy although our data does not confirm blind loops as a pathophysiological factor table 3. however both variables are of minor relevance and lost their significance in multivariate models.impaired intestinal clearanceanatomic modifications which might lead to im pairment of intestinal clearance derive mostly from surgery but similar to a smaller retrospective study by petrone et al8 overall abdominal surgery was not associated with an increased risk of sibo neither were sigmoid nor ileocecal resection nor obstetric surgery table 3. our data therefore does not confirm the previously assumed protective function of the ileocecal valve10.

by contrast total gastrectomy any resecting gastric surgery and stenoses which lead to stasis of the chymus contributed to the development of sibo with odds ratios between 1.9 and 3.6. since blind loops of any reason were astonishingly not associated to sibo the combination of intestinal diversion and loss of acid barrier is of greater relevance.since small intestinal motility is difficult to quantify as a promoter of clearance this effect might be estimated by measuring gastroparesis as a surrogate parameter.

the highest odds ratios were seen for factors that similar to stenoses lead to impaired clearance on the one hand and supplementation of levothyroxine on the other hand table 6. in this model several independent factors of impaired clea rance but only one of immunosuppression and thyroid gland metabolism were confirmed.in a simplified model in which any impairment of the acid barrier of intestinal clearance or of immune response and hypothyroidism were analysed the impaired acid barrier again lost its significance table 7. hypothyroidism or respectively levothyroxine therapy was most the important single factor with an odds ratio of 3.0 the second most important was impaired intestinal clearance or  2.2 and the third most important was impaired immune response or  1.6.limitationsdue to selective information on outpatients our study population consists mostly of inpatients which might have led to a certain bias.

the role of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth intestinal permeability endotoxaemia and tumour necrosis factor alpha in the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

submit a manuscript help desk doi 10.3748wjg.v23.i5.842world j gastroenterol 2017 february 7 235 842-852issn 1007-9327 print issn 2219-2840 onlinec 2017 baishideng publishing group inc. all rights reserved.retrospective cohort studylevothyroxine therapy and impaired clearance are the strongest contributors to small intestinal bacterial overgrowth results of a retrospective cohort studythorsten brechmann andre sperlbaum wolff schmiegelthorsten brechmann andre sperlbaum wolff schmiegel department of gastroenterology and hepatology berufsge nossenschaftliches universitatsklinikum bergmannsheil gmbh ruhruniversity bochum 44789 bochum germanyauthor contributions brechmann t was guarantor of the article contributed to conception and design of the study data analysis and interpretation supervision drafting the manuscript sperlbaum a contributed to conducting the study acquisition of data analysis and interpretation schmiegel w contributed to supervision revision of the manuscript support in terms of gastroenterology all authors approved the final manuscript.institutional review board statement the study was reviewed and approved by the institutional review board of the ruhr university bochum registration number 486413.conflict-of-interest statement the authors declare that there is no actual or potential conflict of interest related to the work.open-access this article is an openaccess article which was selected by an inhouse editor and fully peerreviewed by external reviewers.

telephone 492343023411fax 492343026707received august 26 2016peer-review started august 28 2016first decision october 20 2016revised october 22 2016accepted november 16 2016article in press november 16 2016published online february 7 2017abstractaimto identify a set of contributors and weight and rank them on a pathophysiological basis.methodspatients who have undergone a lactulose or glucose hydrogen breath test to rule out small intestinal bacte- rial overgrowth sibo for various clinical symptoms including diarrhoea weight loss abdominal pain cramping or bloating were seen as eligible for inclusion in a retrospective single-centre study.

suspected contributors were su- mmarised under four different pathophysiological path- ways impaired gastric acid barrier impaired intestinal clearance immunosuppression and miscellaneous factors including thyroid gland variables and investi- gated using the kh 2 test student's t -test and logistic regression models.resultsa total of 1809 patients who had undergone hydrogen breath testing were analysed.

impairment of the gastric acid barrier gastrectomy odds ratio or  3.5 ppi therapy or  1.4 impairment of intestinal clearance any resecting gastric surgery or  2.6 any colonicbrechmann t et al .

additionally conditions that predispose stool reflux such as ileocecal resection or low ileocecal valve pressure are discussed as sibo predisposing factors10.more evidence exists concerning impaired motility such as small intestinal pseudoobstruction and several neurological diseases or diabetes111.

