lignin ali- phatic regions are shown for a original poplar wood b fresh fungus combc middle-aged fungus comb and d mature fungus comb.

lignin aro- matic regions are shown for the original poplar wood a fresh fungus comb b middle-aged fungus comb c and mature fungus comb d. correlations from the major aromatic ring unit types are well dispersed and color coded by their indicated structures.

the lignin compositions in the fungus comb were strikingly different from those in the original poplar even in the fresh comb table 1. the b-ether units a decreased by 28 going from the wood to the fresh fungus comb followed by an additional 57 from fresh to the middle-aged comb but no further depletion in the mature fungus comb.

moreover the comparative studies of fresh and middle-aged fungus comb showed that continuous cleavage of lignin sidechains is occurring throughout this process but with no furtherdepletion in the mature fungus comb implying the bacterial lineages in the fresh comb derived from the feces of young workers may have similar lignin-degrading abilities to those in the gut and thus sub- sequently contribute to the complete lignin depolymerization 39 40.confirmation of lignin depolymerization and degradation by pyrolysis- gc-ms and tetramethylammonium hydroxide-pyrolysis-gc-ms. to establish whether a significant decrease in aromatic units had occurred during the fungus-cultivating termite pretreatment the original poplar wood and fungus comb samples were subjected to pyrolysis py-gc-ms the pyrograms of which with their num- bered peaks identifying lignin-derived phenols are shown in fig.

poplar wood fresh fungus comb middle-aged fungus comb and mature fungus comb with added internal standard i.s.. the peaks labeled are identified phenolics-derived compounds.

poplar wood fresh fungus comb middle-aged fungus comb and mature fungus comb.

the hsqc spectra of the digested wood from the young worker termites shows divergent behavior compared with wood after white- and brown-rot decay also analyzed by 2d-nmr spectroscopy 32 33. for example white-rotted wood typically shows simultaneous disappearance of lignin and polysaccharide moieties whereas brown- rotted wood retains much of the lignin aromatics with some depletion of aliphatic side-chains.

as dominant decomposers an o. formosanus colony forms in sub- tropical china with massive fungus combs underground a which are made of various plant materials foraged by worker termites b. age-related labor division in food processing of fungus-cultivating termites c. old workers forage outside and transport plant materials back to nest and form a food store i young workers ingest the food store ii imbue them with the fungal nodules that are rich in asexual termitomyces spores iii and use their feces to build fresh fungus combs iv old workers gain their nutrition by consuming the mature fungus comb v. d the development of termitomyces fungi in fungal comb the poplar fungal comb has a cycle time of 45 d. the termi- tomyces spores and plant materials rapidly pass through the gut of young worker 3.5 h and form as fresh comb with the fast spores germination i after 15 d of growth the middle-aged comb with dense fungal mycelia and fungal nodules ii and after 30 d more growth the comb materials complete maturation and containing little recognizable mycelia iii.lignin degradation mechanisms in fungus-cultivating termite systems have remained contentious since it was revealed that the ectosymbiotic fungi termitomyces spp.

tmah present during pyrolysis esterifies acids and methylates phenols with remarkable efficiency 41 and has been used to analyze insect-digested and fungal-rotted wood 37 42. ether cleavage resulted in the en- hanced production of 34-dimethoxybenzoic acid methyl ester peak32 and 345-trimethoxybenzoic acid methyl ester peak 42 an increase in the g-derived ester peak 32 to aldehyde peak 20 and the s ester peak 42 to aldehyde peak 33 ratios is indicative of lignin depolymerization 37 42. these g-monomer ratios from the fresh middle-aged and mature fungus comb were 0.64 1.08 and 1.88 compared with 0.12 from the poplar wood si appendix table s6.

moreover although the g and s units are depleteda original poplar woodb fresh fungus combc middle-aged fungus combbdaa-hga-sbb-aryl ether b-o-4b-aryl ether b-o-4-hgb-aryl ether b-o-4-sphenylcoumaran b-5ahog b 1ooomea' ob'g' oh omeohmethoxylhemicellulose unassignedcsdx1resinol b-bspirodienone b-1cinnamyl alcoholfig.

15 16 21 but its functional role in ligninolysis remains unclear and controversial 22. in addition to genetic and biochemical research approaches several solid-state nmr studies have shown different peak intensities assigned to lignin structures between spectra of the fresh comb and mature comb 23 24. although these findings suggest that lignin degradation occurs within the fungus comb these earlier experiments characterizedcomb samples from field colonies with a potentially wide variety of plant debris collected by the termites making it difficult to match the chemical compositional and structural changes occurring along with the plant substrate processing within these systems 25 26. the way macrotermitinae termites and symbiotic microbiota circumvent the lignin barrier and cleave the polysaccharide into easily digestible simple sugars has therefore remained a mystery 8 27.results and discussiongeneral characteristics of wood particles throughout substrate processing.

to investigate lignocellulose degradation we first physi- cally and chemically characterized the fungus comb and the original poplar wood samples by both scanning electron microscopy and chemical compositional analyses.

because other plant material inputs were prevented these results suggest that young worker termites are also engaged in degrading lignocellulose.to determine the transit time of wood particles through the guts of young workers to passage through the fungus comb in odon- totermes formosanus we conducted food-stain marker feeding experiments details provided in si appendix si materials and methods and fig.

2 and 3. the three treated samples fresh middle- aged and mature fungus comb were analyzed and compared withthe original poplar wood.

for fungus combs the lignin aromatic spectral re- gions were entirely different from those from the original poplar wood irrespective of their ages fig.

