2015. how informative is the mouse for human gut microbiota re- search dis model mech 81-16.ochman h worobey m kuo c-h ndjango j-bn peeters m hahn bh hugenholtz p. 2010. evolutionary relation- ships of wild hominids recapitulated by gut microbial com- munities.

these findings led to classic reviews and books on gut microbiota and digestion    .in the last decade or so the advancement of dnasequencing technology has made it possible to investi- gate variation of the entire microbial community which was impossible to study based on culturing methods alone.

most of the work has focused on the gut microbiome but studies have also described microbes associated with other body sites of the host   .in principle variation in the microbiome could havea positive effect a negative effect or no effect on host fitness.

i then identify potential future research directions including the need for manipulative experiments.assistance of energy uptake from dieta series of studies by gordon and colleagues using fecal transplant experiments in mouse models showed that the gut microbiome can affect fat storage and en- ergy extraction from the diet  .

in the case of fore- gut fermenters the stomach andor esophagus are modified and enlarged while in hindgut fermenters the main site of fermentation can be either the large intestine or the enlarged cecum.

from interspecific comparisons the gut microbial communities of herbi- vores often have the highest species richness i.e.

in fact a recent metage- nomic study found an enrichment of bacterial genes associated with chitin degradation in baleen whales .seasonal changes in diet and gut microbial compo- sition in wild mammals also support the involvement of the microbiome in energy extraction.

the increase in acetate- producing bacteria such as akkermansia muciniphila that degrades mucins  was observed in fasting and hibernating ground squirrels    and fasting syrian hamsters .together these studies are consistent with the hy- pothesis that variation in the gut microbiome is as- sociated with the variation in energy extraction from diverse diets in mammalian hosts.detoxification of plant dietary toxinsplants defend themselves from herbivores by produc- ing plant secondary compounds or dietary toxins.

together these studies provide strong evidence that differences in the gut microbiome in natural populations are involved in detoxification of dietary toxins of herbivores.pathogen defense and development of immune systemwhile the microbiome clearly plays an important role in digestion and detoxification another well-studied role is its effect on host immunity  .

recently viruses in the gut mucus layer were suggested to play a role in protection against bacterial pathogens .

thus natural variation in the non-pathogenic microbial community may affect the susceptibility and transmis- sion of fungal diseases in wild mammals.infections of viruses and macroparasites are also as-sociated with differences in the gut microbiota in wild mammals.

after hiv infection in humans gut microbiomes may affect the progression of the disease  .

manipulative experiments in- cluding infection trials are necessary to understand the role of microbial communities in host immunity.modification of chemical communication and host behavioremerging evidence suggests that the microbiome can alter the behavior of mammalian hosts in two ways 1 changes in olfactory signaling by microbial communi- ties in the scent glands  and 2 changes to the central nervous system by mi- crobial communities in the gut  .

the behavioral hormonal and neuro- chemical effects of gut microbiomes through the gut- brain axis has been studied in humans and laboratory mice including the role of the microbiota on anxiety- like behavior depression-like behavior parkinson's disease alzheimer's disease and autism spectrum dis- order reviewed in .

for example germ-free laboratory mice exhibit a variety of abnormalities including the de- velopment of the gut immune system and brain in .

