fxr deficiency increases tca and t-bmca and the gut microbiota profiles in male wd-fed fxr-- mice are distinctly different from control dietefed fxr-- mice.

in this issue of the american journal of pathology jena et al reported a comprehensive study of wd-induced dysbiosis in both male and female fxr-- mice compared to wild-type mice.in the intestine activation of fxr induces fibroblast growth factor 15 fgf15 or fgf19 in humans to inhibit bile acid synthesis in the liver.

ablation of the fxr gene in mice fxr-- impairs bile acid and lipoprotein metabolism and aggravates wd-induced hepatic steatosis.

to study the role of the gut micro- biota in hepatic inflammation they treated control diete and wd-fed fxr-- mice with different antibiotics abx ampi- cillin neomycine metronidazole and vancomycin vanco- mycin and polymyxin b. abx eliminated hepatic neutrophils and lymphocytes in control diet but not in wd-fed fxr-- mice.

gut microbiome analysis showed that fxr-- mice had reduced firmicutes and increased proteobacteria which could be reversed by abx but proteobacteria and bacteroides persisted in wd-fed fxr-- mice.

wd also shifts the gut micro- biota in fxr-- mice by decreasing firmicutes and increasing proteobacteria.analysis of the gut microbiota revealed dif- ferential effects of wd on several metabolic pathways in male and female fxr-- mice.

some non-alcoholic steatohepatitis patients develop to hepatocellular carcinoma and require liver transplant.bile acids are steroid-derived amphipathic molecules that act as detergents for absorption of nutrients steroids and drugs in the intestine and also as serve as signaling mole- cules that activate nuclear farnesoid x receptor fxr and the membrane g-protein bile acid receptor-1 gpbar-1 aka tgr5.bile acid signaling plays a critical role in regula- tion of metabolic homeostasis via the gut-to-liver axis.

bile acids activate fxr to regulate lipid glucose and energy metabolism.

deficiency of fxr impairs bile acid and li- poprotein metabolism and aggravates western high fat diet wdeinduced obesity and diabetes.

obese and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease patients also have reduced firmicutes and increased proteobacteria which causes dysbiosis and contributes to liver inflammation.these studies suggest a link between dietary fats bile acids and gut microbiota.jena et alreported a comprehensive study of wd-induced dysbiosis in both male and female fxr-- mice compared to wild-type mice.

they found that male fxr-- mice had more severe hepatic inflammation and steatosis than female micesupported by national institute of diabetes digestive and kidney diseases national institute and health grants dk44442 and dk58379.accepted for publication june 5 2017. disclosures none declared.address correspondence to john y.l.

sex bile acids diet and microbiotaand wd-feeding aggravates hepatic steatosis more in male than female fxr-- mice.

the same group has recently re- ported that the sex differences in wd-induced hepatic stea- tosis insulin resistance bile acids and microbiota profiles are all fxr-dependent.male wd-fed fxr-- mice had more severe insulin resistance that may contribute to higher severity of hepatic steatosis compared to female mice.

