this lead to four post-weaning dietary treatments cconcentrate without linseed oil fed both before and after weaning lconcentrate containing linseed oil fed both before and after weaning l-pconcentrate with linseed oil fed before weaning and concentrate without linseed oil fed post- weaning l-post concentrate without linseed oil fed before weaning and concentrate containing linseed oil fed post-weaning.

these results suggest that the lower levels of methane production associated with diets supplemented with linseed oil recorded in previous studies may be related to the selective promotion and suppression of specific bacterial families.although archaeal community structure was significantlytable 3  species richness d species evenness j  and shannon diversityh loge of communities in the rumen of lambs on the control diet control lambs fed linseed oil for 16 weeks l group and lambs fed linseed oil pre-weaning only l-p group- a bacterial communities b archaeal communities.different in lambs fed linseed oil l and the control group the same two methanogens methanobrevibacter and methanosphaera dominated both communities albeit their relative abundance differed between treatments withtreatmentspecies richnessdspecies evenness j shannon diversity index h logemethanosphaera relatively more abundant in the rumen of the l group.

if dietary treatment had been continued through weaning for an extra 2 weeks the microbial profiles of the lambs fed linseed oil throughout the study and the lambs fed linseed oil short-term may have been more similar.although not significant there did appear to be a trend of higher propionate and lower butyrate levels in lambs in the l-p group compared to those fed linseed oil throughout l group.

it would be interesting to compare methane emission levels from lambs fed linseed oil short-term to those that continued to receive linseed oil for the entire study to see whether the microbial alterations achieved through short-term supplementation translated into persistent decreased methane emissions once supplementation had ceased.conclusionin conclusion supplementation of lambs' diets with linseed oil had a significant effect on both bacterial and archaeal community structure in the rumen.

2008. methane output and diet digestibility in response to feeding dairy cows crude linseed extruded linseed or linseed oil.

one group of lambs were fed a standard lamb meal control group a second group of lambs received a dietary supplement of linseed oil pre-weaning only 4 weeks and were then placed on the control diet l-p group and a third group l group received the linseed oil supplement pre and post-weaning  14 weeks.

from birth to 6 weeks post-partum ewes and lambs were offered a grass silage based diet plus one of two concentrate types with linseed oil l or without linseed oil c inclusion.

the remaining sequences were assigned to methanosarcina methanomassiliicoccus unclassified thermoplasmata unclassified euryarchaeota and unclassified nitrososphaera.effect of linseed oil supplementation on rumen microbiomeprevotella 27.48 unclassified gammaproteobacteria 23.16 unclassified veillonellaceae 9.97 and unclassified lachnospiraceae 6.57 also dominated the rumen of lambs receiving the diet supplemented with linseed oil throughout the study l .

in contrast the relative abundance of methanosphaera was significantly higher in the animals receiving the supplement compared to animals receiving no supplement 40.82 and 26.67 respectively.no significant differences were observed in the concentrations of propionic butyric or acetic acid produced by lambs fed the standard meal and those receiving the linseed oil supplementation .persistent effect of early life dietary supplementationthe rumen bacterial community structure of lambs that only received linseed oil during the pre-weaning stage l-p was also found to be significantly p 0.015 different from the control group .

there were no significant differences recorded in vfa concentrations between the l-p group and the control group .differences in the effect of short-term and long-term dietary supplementationcomparison of lambs fed the linseed oil supplemented feed for 14 weeks l group and lambs fed linseed oil pre-weaning only  4 weeks l-p group revealed significant p0.003 differences between their rumen bacterial communities.

use co2 h2 and formatebacteriacontrol17.66081 - 3.68 0.948102 - 0.007 3.968839 - 0.22l group15.26875 - 1.87 0.947861 - 0.005 3.827596 - 0.12l-p group 20.00073 - 4.93 0.948013 - 0.014 4.102832 - 0.25archaeacontrol0.72 - 0.790.4 - 0.080.42 - 0.46l group0.7 - 0.50.56 - 0.090.49 - 0.33l-p group0.99 - 0.680.61 - 0.060.65 - 0.42 the generation of a reference set of rumen microbial genome sequences by initiatives such as the hungate 1000 should facilitate more accurate classification in the future  .effect of linseed oil on microbial community structure and vfa profilesinclusion of linseed oil in the lambs' diet for 14 weeks significantly changed ruminal bacterial and archaeal community structures.

like other microbiomes the rumen microbiome contains a high level of redundancy   which could explain why differences in bacterial andarchaeal diversity and bacterial vfa correlation profiles did not impact vfa concentrationsprofile.effect of linseed oil during the pre-weaning phase onlylambs in the l-p group received linseed oil during the pre- weaning stage only and reverted to the control diet after weaning.

this may be significant for the long-term health of the linseed oil fed groups.once again despite the impact of linseed oil on microbial community structure and differences in the vfa correlation profiles no difference was observed in the vfa profiles of the l-p and control lambs again suggesting that overall fermentation was not impacted.

however microbial community structure in the rumen of lambs fed linseed oil short- term and lambs fed linseed oil throughout the study differed indicating that the consequences of alterations and disturbances in the rumen as the microbiome is being established in early life is difficult to predict.

10rdghg- ireland716.supplementary materialthe supplementary material for this article can be found online at figure s1  average daily feed intake and weight gain adg from birth and weaning for lambs on a control diet c lambs fed linseed oil for 16 weeks l and lambs fed linseed oil pre-weaning only l-p.table s1  complete list of phyla assigned to sequences generated through sequencing dna extracted from rumen samples from lambs in the control group untreated.referencesabecia l. ramos-morales e. martinez-fernandez g. arco a. martin- garcia a. i and newbold c. j.

