bacteria were classified into lipid-accumulative species black other compound-accumulative species dark gray lipid- and other compound-accumulative species medium gray and non-accumulative species light gray.

bacteria were classified into lipid-accumulative species black other compound- accumulative species dark gray lipid- and other compound- accumulative species medium gray and non-accumulative species light gray.

bacteria were classified into lipid- accumulative species black other compound-accumulative species dark gray lipid- and other compound-accumulative species medium gray and non-accumulative species light gray.

interestingly most of them belong to the phylum actinobacteria 17 species followed by g-proteobacteria 9 species and firmicutes 5 species.

lipid-accumulative species and species with additional compound accumulation together constitute be- tween 8 fig.

hot desert species are assumed to accumulate larger amounts of lipids per gram cell dry weight than humid soil species.

an explicit comparison of these species and their ex- tent of lipid accumulation with non-extremophilic bacteria may be helpful.if especially hot desert species produce a high cellular lipid content focusing on these habitats will save time and moneyfig.

however species from salt-rich locations may possibly be much easier to cultivate than species from desert locations.in summary new applicable strains must show not only efficient lipid accumulation but also suitability for large- scale cultivation.

comparison of corre- sponding literature resulted in several bacterial species from desert habitats which had already been described as lipid- accumulative elsewhere.

with more than 50 of the total com- munity size in single studies hot deserts appear to be more favorable for lipid-accumulative species then humid soil 20 and cold deserts 17. low bacterial lipid accumu- lation in cold deserts is assumed to result from the influence ofelectronic supplementary material the online version of this article doi0 contains supplementary material which is available to authorized users.

for degradable implants and retard materialsholmes  hazer and steinbuchel  once the mate- rials have been studied in more detail.less species are known to accumulate triacylglycerols steinbuchel  alvarez and steinbuchel .

the selective search for new promising species aims at highly effective bacterialstrains which are essential in this context.this review shall provide support for the suitability of arid environments as convenient location of undiscovered lipid- accumulative bacteria.

the arising reactive oxygen species ros enhance oxidation reactions and may induce a vicious circle of cell destruction dose et al.

in this so-called bglassy state bacteria are able to resist a drought for a long time bglassy-state theory green and angell .to minimize water loss some bacterial species produce extracellular polysaccharides.

a thickened cell wall as it was found in species of g-proteobacteria fulfills the same function houang et al.

