as described before 22 followed by examination 72 h later of carrier-mediated biotin uptake by native colonic sheets as described by us before 17 53. theresults showed that in vivo exposure to lps again leads to a significant p  0.01 inhibition in carrier- mediated biotin uptake by native colonic tissue .effect of in vitro and in vivo exposure to lps on colonic level of expression of smvt protein and mrnarecent investigations from our laboratory have established that the smvt is the only transport system responsible for biotin uptake in the gut 18. thus we examined whether the above-described inhibition in carrier-mediated biotin uptake by in vitro exposure of the colonic epithelial ncm460 cells to lps is associated with changes in expression of smvt protein and mrna levels.

1.effect of lps on biotin uptake by human colonic epithelial ncm460 cells a human intestinal epithelial caco-2 cells b and mouse native colonic tissue c. for the in vitro lps studies confluent cells were serum starved overnight and then treated with lps 50 mgml 72 h. for the in vivo lps study mice were injected 5 mgkg body wt ip and then used 72 h later for the study.

the results showed a significant p  0.01 decrease in the level of expression of the hsmvt protein at the cell membrane  with no change in its level in the total cell homogenate .to further investigate the potential involvement of ck2 in the inhibitory effect of lps on biotin uptake by colonic epithelial ncm460 cells and on cell surface expression of the hsmvt protein we investigated the effect of mutating to alanine the putative ck2 phosphorylation sites in the hsmvt protein thr78alaser128ala ser242ala thr366ala and thr627ala on carrier-mediated biotin uptake and on membrane expression of smvt.

the result indeed showed that this isto be the case with uptake of 1048.36 - 19.99 671.20 - 86.02 and 330.09 - 46.69 fmolmg protein5 min- se for control lps-treated cells and lps plus tbb-treated cells respectively.in another investigation we examined whether the inhibition in biotin uptake caused by tbb is mediated via a decrease in the level of expression of the smvt protein at the cell surface.

the effect of lps ck2 inhibitors and mutating the putative ck2 phosphorylation sites in the smvt protein on expression of the carrier protein at the cell membrane of ncm460 and arpe-19 cells was examined by means of biotinylation assay using a cell surface biotinylation kit pierce biotechnology rockford il as previously described 6 21 33 39. briefly cells were maintained under serum-starved condition overnight and treated with lps 50 mgml 72 h in suitable medium supplemented with 0.5 fbs.

2.effect of lps on the level of expression of total cellular sodium-dependent multivitamin transporter smvt protein and mrna in human colonic epithelial ncm460 cells a and mouse native colonic tissue b. ncm460 cells were pretreated with lps 50 mgml 72 h followed by determination of the level of expression of hsmvt protein a i and mrna a ii.

similar results were obtained in studies utilizing the human intestinal epithelial caco-2 cells where again lps 50 mgml 72 h caused a significant p  0.01 inhibition in carrier-mediated biotin uptake .to establish physiological relevance of the above in vitro lps exposure study we also examined the effect of in vivo exposure of mice to lps on biotin uptake by native colonic tissue.

these results suggest that the effect of lps on colonic biotin uptake is not mediated via changes in the rate of transcription of the slc5a6 gene or in total cellular level of the smvt protein.lps inhibition of colonic biotin uptake is mediated via reduction in cell surface expression of the hsmvt proteinwith the above-described findings suggesting that lps-mediated inhibition in colonic biotin uptake is not exerted at the level of transcription of the slc5a6 gene or via changes in level of total cellular smvt protein we tested the possibility that the effect is mediated via changes in the fraction of the smvt protein that is expressed at the cell surface.

confluent monolayers of the colonic epithelial ncm460 cells derived from a 68-yr-old male the intestinal epithelial caco-2 cells derived from a 72-yr- old male and the retinal pigment epithelial arpe-19 cells derived from a 19-yr-old male were used in these investigations atcc manassas va. ncm460 cells were maintained in f12 medium ham whereas caco-2 and arpe-19 cells were maintained in emem gibco waltham ma medium supplemented with fbs 10 and streptomycin 10 mgl under standard conditions.

these findings suggest a role for ck2 in mediating the inhibitory effect of lps on biotin uptake and on membrane expression of the hsmvt protein.to further confirm the possible role of ck2 in regulating biotin uptake and in expression of the hsmvt protein at the cell surface we examined the effect of mutating individually the putative ck2 phosphorylation sites in the smvt polypeptide on biotin uptake.

we chose the latter cell type for this study because of their excellent transfection efficiency unlike the poor transfection efficiency of ncm460 cells and because the previous findings have established their suitability in studies of smvt function and regulation 20 25 26. in these investigations we first showed that treatment of the arpe-19 cells with lps or with the ck2 inhibitors tbb and tbca also leads to inhibition p  0.01for all in biotin uptake  a and b respectively.

in the in vitro lps exposure studies confluent monolayers of ncm460 as well as caco-2 and arpe-19 cells were used and biotin uptake was examined as described by us previously 16. in brief cells were incubated 5 min initial rate in krebs-ringer kr buffer 133.00 mm nacl 4.93 mm kcl 1.23 mm mgso4 0.85 mm cacl2 5.00 mm glucose 5.00 mm glutamine 10.00 mm hepes and10.00 mm mes ph 7.4 at 37degc in presence of 3h-biotin 6.4 nm.

biotin uptake by the carrier-mediated process was determined by subtracting uptake of a physiological concentration of 3h-biotin in the presence of 1 mm unlabeled biotin from total uptake i.e.from uptake in the absence of unlabeled biotin.for in vivo studies we used 12-wk-old male c57bl6 mice jackson laboratory bar harbor me.

the intestine is exposed to two sources of biotin a dietary source absorbed in the small intestine and a microbiota-generated source absorbed in the large intestine 41 48 49. absorption of biotin in both the small and large intestine occurs via a carrier-mediated process that involves the sodium-dependent multivitamin transporter smvt system encoded by the slc5a6 gene.this carrier system is exclusively expressed at the apical membrane domain of polarized absorptive epithelial cells 52. studies from our laboratory and others have delineated different cell and molecular aspects of the intestinal biotin uptake process how the process is regulated at the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels and how specific external environmentalinternal factors and conditions affect and interfere with the event 46-49. nothing however is presently known about the effect of the bacterial lps on intestinal biotin uptake process so it was therefore examined in this study.lps is a powerful bacterial virulence factor in terms of proinflammatory properties and is a source of considerable clinical morbidity and mortality.

our results showed that in vitro and in vivo exposure to lps leads to a decrease in biotin uptake by colonic epithelial cells with no change in level of expression of total cellular smvt protein or its mrna.

