in the present work we aimed to characterize the extent to which lls potentially contributes to host infection by directly performing damaging activities on eukaryotic cells and tissues.using an array of molecular cell biology and histology techniques we demonstrate that unlike sls i lls causes very weak rbc hemolysis ii it does not confer resistance to phagocytic clearance iii it does not affect the levels of secreted cytokines by cells infected by l. monocytogenes iv when expressed under the control of its native promoter or expressed through a constitutive promoter by intracellular l. monocyto- genes it is not cytotoxic for epithelial cells and macrophages v its constitutive expression by l. monocytogenes in the confined space of a phagocytic vacuole is not sufficient to rupture this membrane compartment vi its expression is undetectable within host cells due to inactivity of its promoter under both in vitro and in vivo conditions vii it does not contribute to eukaryotic cell infection and viii it does not contribute to virulence in an intravenous infection murine model.

monocytogenes cells were labeled with a primary polyclonal goat anti-listeria serum and with a secondary chicken anti-goat alexa 647. next cells were permeabilized using 0.1 triton x-100 for 4 min at room temperature and total l. monocytogenes cells were labeled with the same primary antibody and a secondary chicken anti-goat alexa 488 antibody.

raw264.7 cells a and caco-2 cells b were cultured in 96-well plates and infected with l. monocytogenes f2365inlbpad-pllsa-gfp or l. monocytogenes f2365inlbpad-phly-gfp.

a numbers of viable intracellular l. monocytogenes f2365 l. monocytogenes f2365 dllsa and l. monocytogenesphelpllsa cells in caco-2 hd11 and raw264.7 cells.

using an moi of 5 for caco-2 cells or an moi of 2 for raw264.7 cells leads us to believe thattable 1 bacterial strains used in this studyaathe strains shown are from the uibc bacterial collection.experimental conditions used in the previous study  may have influenced the in vitro cell system conditions finally leading to an increase of 20 to 30 of ldh release to the medium due to lls and also bacterial exposure.

the tissue culture cells used in this study were from the raw264.7 balbc mouse macrophage cells atcc tib-71 hd11 avian macrophage cell line  and caco-2 atcc htb-37 lines.

cells were maintained in dulbecco's modified eagle's medium dmem gibco with 2 mm glutamax 4 mm for raw264.7 cells supplemented with 10 20 for caco-2 volvol fetal calf serum biowest.

research articlelisteriolysin s is a streptolysin s-like virulence factor that targets exclusively prokaryotic cells in vivojuan j. queredaabc marie a. nahoriabc jazmin meza-torresabc martin sachsed patricia titos-jimeneze jaime gomez-lagunae olivier dussurgetabcfpascale cossartabc javier pizarro-cerdaabcinstitut pasteur unite des interactions bacteries-cellules paris francea institut national de la sante et de la recherche medicale u604 paris franceb institut national de la recherche agronomique usc2020 paris francec institut pasteur ultrapole paris franced anatomy and comparative pathology department university of cordoba international excellence agrifood campus ceia3 cordoba spaine cellule pasteur universite paris diderot sorbonne paris cite paris francefabstract streptolysin s sls-like virulence factors from clinically relevant gram- positive pathogens have been proposed to behave as potent cytotoxins playing key roles in tissue infection.

surprisingly we first show that lls causes only weak red blood cell rbc hemolysis in vitro and neither confers re- sistance to phagocytic killing nor favors survival of l. monocytogenes within the blood cells or in the extracellular space in the plasma.

we reveal that lls does not elicit specific immune responses is not cytotoxic for eukaryotic cells and does not impact cell infection by l. monocytogenes.

using in vitro cell infection systems and a murine intravenous infection model we actually demonstrate that lls expression is undetectable during infection of cells and murine inner organs.

overall we demon- strate that lls is the first sls-like virulence factor targeting exclusively prokaryotic cells during in vivo infections.importance the most severe human listeriosis outbreaks are caused by l. mono- cytogenes strains harboring listeriolysin s lls previously described as a cytotoxin that plays a critical role in host inner tissue infection.

using live-cell imaging it has been shown that sls activates the major erythrocyte anion exchange protein band 3 and favors a rapid influx of cl- ions into red blood cells rbcs leading to cellular rupture .

in hek-293 cells sls causes lactate dehydrogenase ldh release into the medium massive cytoskeletal disassembly loss of focal contacts and detachment from the tissue culture plates .

the toxin encoded by an sls-like gene cluster in clostridium botulinum is named clostridiolysin s cls and similarly to sls it is hemo- lytic and cytotoxic in hek-293 cells  .lls cls and sls belong to the family of thiazoleoxazole-modified microcins tomms and are encoded by biosynthetic gene clusters characterized by the presence of cyclodehydratasesdehydrogenase genes .

