the important listeriosis epidemics in north america and europe in the 1980s subsequently revealed that l. monocytogenes also represents an important public health problembeing responsible for the largest and most deadly food recalls in the united states.in the following years critical aspects of l. monocytogenes virulence mechanisms were discovered due to advan- ces in molecular and cell biology techniques for example the pore-forming toxin listeriolysin o llo which allows l. monocytogenes escape from phagosomes became the first bacterial virulence factor to have its gene cloned.soon afterwards the intra- cellular cycle of l. monocytogenes was discovered highlighting that this bacterium manipulates the actin cytoskeleton to spread from cell to cellallowing its use as a molecular tool to identify the arp23 complex as the first discovered actin nucleator in eukaryotic cells.since then l. monocytogenes has been studied as a model pathogenas an exquisite tool to manipu- late mammalian cells for the identification of novel cellular functionsand as vector to deliver intracel- lular antigens in anticancer therapies.the l. monocytogenes pathogenicity island i lipi-i and the internalins islet encode for bacterial mole- cules which modulate host cells functions reviewed by these include the surface proteins inla and inlb which promote bacterial internalization into host cellsthe cholesterol-dependent cytotoxin llo and the phospholipases plca and plcb which disrupt hostcell membranes and the surface protein acta involved in host actin polymerization.two addi- tional genes in lipi-i encode for mpl a metallopro- tease involved in the maturation of plcband for prfa the major transcription factor which controls the expression of the most important l. monocyto- genes virulence genes.it is important to note that for decades l. monocytogenes pathogenesis has been mainly studied using a subset of bacterial strains including egd egde lo28 and 10403s which belong to the l. monocytogenes evolutionary lineage ii an assembly of bacterial clonal groups which are rarely associated to major human listeriosis out- breaks.on the other hand listeriosis epidemics in humans are mostly associated to l. monocytogenes clonal groups from the evolutionary lineage i but these strains have been poorly characterized and the molecular mechanisms that contribute to their higher virulence remained unknown until recent times.in 2008 the l. monocytogenes pathogenicity island iii lipi-iii was discovered in a subset of lineage i strains suggesting that it could be associated to the higher virulence potential of these bacteria.lipi-iii encodes a biosynthetic cluster involved in the produc- tion of listeriolysin s lls an hemolytic and cyto- toxic tomm shown to be required for l. monocytogenes virulence in vivo in a mouse intra-peri- toneal infection model.listeriolysin s a bacteriocin that modulates the host microbiotathe lls gene cluster include the gene llsa which enc- odes for the actual lls toxic peptide the genes llsg and llsh which encode for a putative transporter the genes llsb llsy and llsd which encode for putative post-translational modification enzymes involved in the production of thiazoleoxazolemethyloxazole rings the gene llsp which encodes for a putative prote- ase and the gene llsx which encodes for a protein of unknown function specific to the genus listeria.

inactivation of the llsb gene was sufficient to reduce l. monocytogenes numbers in the liver and spleen in vivo suggesting that the post-translational modifica- tion of the llsa gene product is crucial for its biologic activity.to better understand the potential contribution of lls to l. monocytogenes virulence we decided to use a mouse oral infection model which recapitulates thenormal infection route in humans for this food-borne pathogen.

it is unlikely that l. monocytogenes or other enteric pathogens bet on onefigure 1. functional activities of listeriolysin s. lls has been initially described as an hemolytic factor top left which contributes to the virulence of l. monocytogenes in vivo.

identifying the different interactions betweenmicrobiota species during lineage i l. monocytogenes infection will be crucial to understand the contribu- tion of lls to infection.therapeutic useswe still do not know which bacterial species are con- trolled by lls in humans but our results and data from other teams highlight that protective bacterial species could be used as a strategical treatment to pre- vent l. monocytogenes infection in individuals at risk.

our recent work now suggests that lls is also a bacteriocin which in vitro is capable of killing s. aureus and l. lactis top right and which in vivo modulates the host intestinal microbiota bottom right allowing l. monocytogenes col- onization of the intestine bottom left.figure 2. perspectives on listeriolysin s research.

several bacteriocins are produced for niche colonization and it would not be surprising to discover such a role for l. innocua and also for l. monocytogenes in the environment.

4 384-391addendumlisteriolysin s a bacteriocin from epidemic listeria monocytogenes strains that targets the gut microbiotajuan j. quereda jazmin meza-torres pascale cossart and javier pizarro-cerdaainstitut pasteur unite des interactions bacteries-cellules paris france binserm u604 paris france cinra usc2020 paris francearticle historyreceived 1 december 2016 revised 24 january 2017 accepted 24 january 2017keywordsbacteriocin intestinal barrier listeria monocytogenes listeriolysin s lls microbiotaintroduction bacteriocinsbacteriocins are ribosomally-synthesized peptides or proteins which have been reported in bacteria and archea which can kill species closely related to the producer species and for which the producer often displays an immunity mechanism.historically the term 'bacteriocin' coined by franc ois jacob in 1953 referred to colicins produced by escherichia coliand analogous proteins produced by other gram-negative bacteria including pyocins from pseudomonas pyocya- nea marcenins from serratia marcescens cloacins produced by enterobacter cloacae or influenzacins by haemophilus influenzae.in gram-positive bacteria bacteriocin-like activities were described as early as 1928but the name 'bacteriocin' was used only in later yearsin particular as a reference to lantibiotics and other peptides produced mainly by lactic acid bacteria.several bacteriocin classification schemes have been proposed which either include only moleculesproduced by gram-positive bacteria or molecules produced by both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria.nowadays the term 'bacteriocin' comprises diverse molecules which include circular peptides non-modified peptides and post-translationally modi- fied peptides including members of the thiazoleoxa- zole modified microcins tomms.

published with license by taylor and francis.this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the creative commons attribution-noncommercial-noderivatives license   which permits non-commercial re-use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited and is not altered transformed or built upon in any way.have recently reported the first bacteriocin produced for the gram-positive genus listeria.listeria monocytogenes a food-borne pathogenlisteria monocytogenes is a major bacterial model sys- tem in diverse research fields including microbiology immunology and cell biology.

our results indicate that the lineage i strain is more virulent than the 2 lineage ii strains after counting colony forming units in the intestinal content in the intestine and in the spleen 48 hours after infection.to specifically evaluate the role of lls in this oral infection model we generated dele- tions mutants for the llsa and llsb genes surprisingly we observed for these mutants an important reduction in their capacity to invade the intestine and to survive in the intestinal content as early as 6 hours post-infec- tion suggesting that the lls could play a role in viru- lence during the l. monocytogenes intestinal stage.

as l. monocytogenes encoun- ters diverse bacterial communities during the intesti- nal phase of listeriosis we decided to explore the hypothesis that lls could behave as a bacteriocin and influence virulence by modulating the host gut micro- biota.

our findings pave the way to understand why lineage i l. monocytogenes strains are more often associated to human listeriosis outbreaks and in particular they suggest that modulation of the host microbiota is criti- cal for the infection outcome.

whether bacteriocin production by epidemic entero-pathogenic bacteria is a common strategy to colonize the gastrointestinal tract or whether it is an exceptional mechanism used only by some l. monocytogenes and enterococci strains during their infection processes remains to be elucidated.open questionscellular activitieslls is a member of the tomm family which has been described previously as an hemolytic and cyto- toxic factor.now we report lls behaving also as bacteriocinthis dual feature is not specific to lls as it has been previously observed in a molecule secreted by staphylococcus pseudointermedius indeed the peptide bacsp222 displays both features of a cytotoxic factor against eukaryotic cells and a bacteri- ocin toward gram-positive bacteria.

suggest that the cytotoxic activity of lls also contributes to l. monocytogenes viru- lence.using our bioluminescent reporter we were not able to detect the activation of the lls promoter in other organs besides the intestine.however we cannot exclude that activation of the lls operon takes place at levels which are not detected by our reporter system.

it remains to be determined which cellular populations are targeted by lls in vivo  it would be tempting to speculate that lls may either favor vacuolar escape in cooperation with llo plca and plcb or that its hemolytic role may favor l. monocytogenes survival in the blood.bactericidal mechanismthe mechanism by which lls achieves bacterial kill- ing is unknown.

the status of the host microbiota has never been assessed nor taken into account in animal studies upon l. monocytogenes infection through the oral route.

