particular emphasis was placed on n status as boreal ecosystems are generally n-limited and burning has been demonstrated to influence levels of soil n. hence we collected data on the following characteristics of the humus layer total c and n dissolved organic c doc total dissolved n tdn extractable inorganic n eindissolved organic n don through-fall n and the ph of the humus layer.total c and n were determined by dry combustion using a c elemental analyser leco corp. st. joseph mi usa fol- lowing drying of the humus samples at 60 degc.

given the signif- icance of environmental factors to microbial community struc- ture it is reasonable to posit that microbial communities in and around the soil environment will respond to the progressive changes in edaphic factors that accompany post-fire succession.the bryosphere is an intermediate layer between below- ground and aboveground components of the boreal forest  and as such it is influenced by both the underlying soil and the forest canopy.

this was not observed in the moss layer possibly because organic acids were leached from the base of the moss layer into the mineral soil an increase in mineral soil ph with tsf was recorded results not shown.

humus ph was established with an electronicph meter after suspending 1 g dw of humus in 25 ml0.01 m cacl2.the thicknesses of a the green and brown parts of the moss layer and b the humus layer were recorded at each forest site in order to identify changes in the structure of the moss layer with tsf .

reported the recov- ery of fungal communities associated with boreal feather mosses within 30 years of clear-cutting.based on our findings and other published reports it is likely that the re-establishment of fungal communities in the moss layer either from spores or hyphae surviving in the soil is rapid in successional terms years or decades  most of the major structural changes on our sites occurred early on.

the two constraining variables accounted for 64  of the variance in the community datatable 3microbial diversity for the five boreal forest sites based on standardised samplesbacterial diversityfungal diversitynumbers indicating that richness in the standardised sam- ples might not reliably indicate underlying community di- versity online reso urce 2. chao 1 estimates indicatedh shannon diversitybacterial diversity was similar on each of the sites and did not appear to vary systematically with tsf table  nor was it obviously correlated with edaphic factors that are commonly thought to structure bacterial communities e.g.

the mosslitter layer was removed from each core which was then divided into a humus layer and mineral soil component only the hu- mus layer is considered in this study because we were most interested in conditions in the immediate proximity of the mosses.

the sites were chosen to a minimise differences in state factors other than tsf and b to encompass a broad age range with an even temporal spac- ing of sites at early mid and late stages of forest succession.

.the length of the green portion of the moss layer stayed constant with tsf mean length 2.4 - 0.1 cm whereas the length of the brown tissue increased withrus 0.3 - 0.0339.4 - 7.644.6 - 1.6 3.30 - 0.04lad 0.1 - 0.01120.7 - 15.999.4 - 2.6 3.06 - 0.02guo 0.4 - 0.01na45.1 - 1.4 3.48 - 0.18tja 0.5 - 0.0195.4 - 1.943.5 - 0.3 2.98 - 0.02rev 0.3 - 0.0154.8 - 7.244.8 - 1.0 3.11 - 0.05the analysis was performed on the humus layer.

1 selected edaphic factors humus layer and mosshumus layer thickness plotted against tsf.

the sites were characterised by the dominance of scots pine pinus sylvestris l. and a feather moss ground layer primar- ily p. schreberi that increased in  cover with tsf.

it is reasonable to as- sume that microbes in the bryosphere respond to similar fac- tors as bryophytes form a continuous interface between the soil organic layer and the forest understory.

cambridge university press cambridgebergner b johnstone j treseder kk 2004 experimental warming and burn severity alter soil co2 flux and soil functional groups in a recently burned boreal forest.

environ microbiol 131642-1654. doilauber cl hamady m knight r fierer n 2009 pyrosequencing- based assessment of soil ph as a predictor of soil bacterial community structure at the continental scale.

the structure of the community could be largely explained by just two factors tsf and ph although the im- portance of tsf diminished as the forest recovered fromelectronic supplementary material the online version of this article doi7 contains supplementary material which is available to authorized users.

