We attribute the respective discrepancy between the findings of Broecker and Jalanka with those of Weingarden and ourselves to differences in sensitivity between 16S and metagenomic methodologies and to possible involvement of the host immune status and potential subsequent therapies in influencing the long-term fate of donor microbiota.Our analysis of nucleotide-level similarity between donor and recipient adapted from Liet al  showed donor concordance over short-term timepoints consistent with that group's findings however after 1 year post-FMT we report high discordance between donor and recip- ient genus Roseburia SNVs .

As a point of comparison we also calculated donor self-similarity using multiple stool samples taken over 180 days from donor 29 who provided fecal samples for all subjects aside from D G and H. Donor self-similarity was calculated as similarity across the donor time series to the initial timepoint.

At 1 year post-Genus-level taxonomic composition reveals extensive short-term donor microbial engraftment with FMT followed by long-term reduction in donor similarity relative to donor self-similarity over a similar time period.

All polymorphisms distinguishing the donor from the long-term sample were selected and presence of these discriminant polymorphisms in intermediate timepoints was recorded adapted from a previously described approach .FMT we found the strains present within the genus Roseburia in Subject A to be genetically different from those of the donor.As organisms from the genus Escherichia were observed in both donor and Subject A pre- FMT  we focused on the representative species Escherichia coli and investigated whether strains post-FMT showed greater concordance with recipient pre-FMT or donor strains of E. coli.

Although donor-concordant patterns of engraftment were found to be sustained for all short- term samples 21 days compositional similarity was largely diminished in the long-term 1 year timepoints for both Subjects A and B.To quantitatively assess parity between donor and recipient gut communities we calculated whole-community similarity of all timepoints for Subjects A and B and long-term timepoints for Subjects C D E and F to corresponding donor timepoints at both the levels of genus    and gene  .

However at1 year post-FMT donor similarity was reduced beyond the range of variability observed in donor self-similarity.

At the taxonomic level donor self-similarity fluctu- ated by as much as 33 though at the level of gene variations in donor self-similarity were minimal within 1.

Since the presence of genus Roseburia was found to be negligible in Subject A pre-FMT yet abundant in both the donor and recipient post-FMT  we sought to investigate the concordance of Roseburia strains between donor and Subject A over both the short-term within 21 days of FMT and the long-term 1 year.

c Whole-community Bray-Curtis donor similarity for Subjects A and B and an additional four patients Subjects C D E and F for which long-term and donor samples were obtained is shown for genus-level composition.

a A high number of single nucleotide variants SNVs distinguish the genus Roseburia strains present in the donor FMT sample day 33 in donor time series and Subject A recipient shortly after FMT from those in Subject A after one year following FMT.

