because antimicrobial therapies often control and resolvethe symptoms associated with pulmonary exacerbations it is important that we understand the longitudinal dynamics of the cf lung microbiota with respect to onset of pulmonary symptoms.in this study when examined as discrete groups samples of the cf lung microbiota obtained during treatment intermediate and stable periods were identified as significantly different from each other permanova of bray-curtis distance p  0.016 though highly confounded by the originating participant.

we discovered no consistent indicator of exacer- bation onset and instead confirm the patient-specific nature of the cf lung microbiome.materials and methodsparticipant recruitment and sputum collectionfrom july to october of 2012 6 knowledgeable and compliant cystic fibrosis cf patients were recruited for this study from the southern alberta adult cystic fibrosis clinic.

in this study we identified no universal indicator within the lung microbiome of exacerbation onset but instead showed that changes to the cf lung microbiome occur out- side of acute pulmonary episodes and are patient-specific.introductioncystic fibrosis cf is caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator cftr gene   which leads to impairments in pancreatic and liver function and intestinal obstruction  .

however longitudinal studies of the dynamics within the cf lung microbiota are important in determining the bacterial compo- nent of pulmonary exacerbation.by studying 6 people with cf for up to a year in a prospective longitudinal study of the microbiota preceding during and following exacerbation we conclude no discernable partic- ipant-wide dynamics which explain the onset of pulmonary exacerbation.

a. pcoa plots of all participants illustrate the clustering of participant samples indicated as significant by permanova p  0.001. health state within participants as defined as stable intermediate 1 month pre- or post-treatment and treatment was significant permanova p  0.016 but was highly confounded by the participant p  0.042 of participant health interaction term.

2006 feb cited 2015 jul 14 1482259-64. available from corey m edwards l levison h knowles m. longitudinal analysis of pulmonary function decline in patients with cystic fibrosis.

2010 apr cited 2016 jun 23 232299-323. available fromsibley cd parkins md rabin hr duan k norgaard jc surette mg. a polymicrobial perspective of pulmonary infections exposes an enigmatic pathogen in cystic fibrosis patients.

2010 may cited 2015 mar 20 59pt 5534-40. available fromwhelan fj surette mg. clinical insights into pulmonary exacerbations in cystic fibrosis from the micro- biome what are we missing ann am thorac soc.

these types of changes may result from changes in antimicrobial therapy   changes in pulmonary function   or other undetermined factors.when we focused on the 2 participants in the study who had the most n  4 and leastn  0 number of exacerbations during the study period longitudinal analyses were unable to provide general microbiome patterns predicting exacerbation there were no correlations between exacerbation and alpha or beta diversity fev1 antibiotic use or symptom scores.previous longitudinal analyses of the cf lung microbiota's role in pulmonary exacerbation onset have drawn similar conclusions to those observed within this study  .

research articlelongitudinal sampling of the lung microbiota in individuals with cystic fibrosisfiona j. whelan1 alya a. heirali2 laura rossi1 harvey r. rabin23 michael d. parkins23 michael g. surette124department of biochemistry and biomedical sciences mcmaster university hamilton canadadepartment of microbiology immunology and infectious diseases the university of calgary calgary canada 3 department of medicine the university of calgary calgary canada 4 department of medicine mcmaster university hamilton canada abstractopen accesscitation whelan fj heirali aa rossi l rabin hr parkins md surette mg 2017 longitudinal sampling of the lung microbiota in individuals with cystic fibrosis.

this is further examined via a genus-biplot of the pcoa  which indicates that pseudomonas contrib- utes to the separation of samples from participants b and c similarly staphylococcus and cupriavidus separates samples from participant f and fusobacterium separates samples from participant d. further a upgma phylogeny of the bray-curtis dissimilarity between samples shows almost perfect inter-participant separation .the cf lung microbiome is distinguished by individual.

the authors determined that the core microbiota were resistant to exacerbation and associated antimicrobial treatments .in this study we expand on the above by examining relative changes to the cf lung bacte- rial community over the course of one year in 6 participants in the context of clinical status exacerbation treatment versus stability changes in participant reported symptom scores and spirometry values and antibiotic treatments.

understanding the mechanisms underlying pulmonary exacerbation and thus being able to mitigate symptom onset andor severity would have important implications for individualsexamples of stability and variability in the cf lung microbial communities of two select participants c and e. a. visualization of the stability of participant c's lung microbial community over the study period.

d. correlations between thesecollected data and the otus present within the microbiome were calculated and significant correlations were reported  a subset of these significant correlations are plotted.doi10.1371journal.pone.0172811.g005longitudinal dynamics of the cf lung microbiotato further understand elements of the patient-specific dynamics of the cf lung microbiota we focused on 2 participants who completed the full study period.

although this sample size is small these findings indicate that the use of alpha diversity metrics to assess the relative health status and stability of the lung microbiota may be complex at the patient-level even though low alpha diversity has been associated with poor lung function at the population-level.longitudinal dynamics of two select participants c and e. two participants who were the outliers in terms of the number of pulmonary exacerbations experienced over the course of the study period were chosen for closer examination.

