however following long-term antibiotic administrating the body adjusted the immune system improved the body's immune function which made the immune system obtain a new immune balance.

in fact both the immune response and immune homeostasis are affected by gut microbiota.

along similar lines mouse models also showed that treatment with ampicillin clindamycin or vanco- mycin induced microbiota dysbiosis.the commensal gut microbiota has a profound effect on immune system.

our previous study showed that short term for 7 days use of ceftriaxone-induced microbiota dysbiosis resulted in decreased siga secretion and increased inflammatory cytokines levels.it is clear that antibiotics-induced microbiota dysbiosis disrupts the immune system.

this study helps our understanding of the influences of long-term antibiotic exposure on host gut microbiota and immune system.resultsdynamic changes of intestinal microbiota in ceftriaxone-treated mice based on dgge finger- print.

not only the immune defense long term ceftriaxone administration also affected immune regulation.

our results showed that siga secretion in ceftriaxone treated mice decreased significantly in a dose dependent manner when compared with control mice throughout the experiment which suggested a significant reduction in the protective ability of the intestinal mucosa against exogenous bacterial infections.long term antibiotic administration affected both the immune defense and the immune regulation.

long term ceftriaxone administration resulting in a new balance of th1 and th2.the cd4cd8 ratio is considered a marker for both immune senescence and immune activation.

long term ceftriaxone administration induced a reduction in commensal bacterium and overgrowth of antibiotic resistant bacterium which had a great impact on both local immune response and systemic immune response.

except for immune response long term ceftriaxone administration also affected immune regulation.

these data indi- cated that long term ceftriaxone administration destroyed the original immune homeostasis and formed a new immune balance.

openreceived 16 september 2016accepted 18 january 2017published 21 february 2017long-term use of ceftriaxone sodium induced changes in gut microbiota and immune systemyanjie guo1 xuefeiyang1yane qi1 shu wen1yinhui liu1 shaoying tang2 rongsheng huang2  li tang1antibiotic administration while facilitating clearance of targeted infections also perturbs commensal microbial communities.

the gut microbiota contributes to the development and differentiation of the mammalian immune system.

email depletion of commensal microbes and changing the microbiota composition by antibiotic administration affects the immune system.

in this study balbc mice were treated with ceftriaxone for a long period 5 months feces microbiotamucus siga circulating igg ifn-gil-4 ratio cd cd  ratio and cd4cd25 cells were examined to illus-48trate the changes of gut microbiota and immune function.

