dna sequencing was performed by using the illumina hiseq or nextseq instruments and standard reagents illumina.ngs computational analyses--to check if the sequencing and sample preparation went well we did the quality check on the raw data using fastqc tool version 0.11.5. the low quality read trimming along with adapter clipping was performed using trimmomatictosi et al.page 14version 0.36. then the resulting fastq files from trimmomatic output were mapped against a reference genome sequence using bowtie2.

hybridization and capture were performed as described above.capture of human orfs using single lasso probes from human cdna--to capture human orfs total rna of jurkat e6-1 atcc tib-152 cells was extracted using mirneasy micro kit qiagen.

our approach was developed to permit the assembly of lasso probes from a complex pool of shorter synthetic oligonucleotides which can be readily obtained using programmable dnatosi et al.page 3microarray synthesis technology.11 using lasso probe libraries we show the simultaneous capture of thousands of target orfs including those 4 kilobases kb in length 10-fold longer than previously reported.

7.multiplex lasso cloning of the e. coli orfeomewe next evaluated the ability of lasso probes to capture a library of kilobase-sized orfs from e. coli genomic dna using two different adapter lengths 350 bp and 550 bp.these results were additionally compared to capture using traditional mip probes 120 bp in length.

b kanamycin resistant e. coli colonies obtained by cloning the post-capture pcr of kanr2 into a pet21 expression vector and transformation into bl21 kanamycin susceptible e. coli cells by electroporation.c the percentage of functional kanr2 orfs present in the kanamycin resistant e. colicolonies.tosi et al.page 19figure 4. comparison of orfeome capture using lasso or mip probe librariesa schematic of workflow of orfeome capture using lasso or mip probe libraries.

in contrast mip captured sequences were strongly enriched at the end of the orfs suggesting that mip capture products were largely derived from incomplete or misprimed polymerase extensions that were then able to ligate to the ligation arm and form closed circular products.importantly the size distribution of the lasso capture amplicon corresponded well with that of the targeted orfs supplementary figure 9. in summary our data lack of fpkm target enrichment poor fragment distribution and low cloning yield indicate that traditional mips cannot be used for cloning of kilobase-sized dna libraries.using optimized capture conditions we repeated the capture of the e. coli orfeome using the lasso-242bp probe library.

using the mip library in parallel we only detected a few orfs from e. coli all at very low coverage indicating that the lasso library was effectively able to capture and clone orfs from a microbiome sample.outlookwe have demonstrated that lasso probes can be used to clone thousands of kilobase-sized dna fragments from a prokaryotic genome in a single reaction over 3 megabases in this study and that this technique can be adapted to cdna-derived expression libraries as well as orfeome cloning from microbiome samples.

the full table of the orfs with valid ligation and extension arms and the corresponding pre-lasso probes subpool  400bp and for the pre-lasso subpool that only included only the orfs 2kb subpool  2kb are reported in supplementary file 1the long adapters 242 bp and 442 bp were obtained by pcr performed by using tailed primers and the plasmid pcdh-cmv-mcs-ef1-puro system bioscience as template.

all orfs having size  than 1kb were included in the graphs.tosi et al.page 20figure 5. multiplex capture and sequencing of an e. coli orfeome librarya post capture pcr of circles obtained from the capture of 3164 orfs of e. coli k12 performed by using the lasso probe library assembled with a 242 bp adapter.

c post capture pcr of circles obtained from the capture of 620bp 1kb or 2kb sequences using as template ssdna m13mp18 dsdna m13mp18 amplicon alone or dsdna m13mp18 amplicon in a background of 10 pm sheared e. coli k12 genomic dna.d post capture pcr of circles obtained by capturing a 1038 bp target sequence within the m13mp18 dsdna 500 fm in presence of an equimolar 500 fm background of total genomic dna of e. coli using serial dilution of a lasso probes.

finally the capture and cloning of escherichia coli e. coli orfs using human stool derived dna as input demonstrate the application of lasso cloning to studies of the human microbiome at the molecular level.lasso construction and single target orf cloninglasso probe construction begins with the fusion of a precursor probe pre-lasso probe designed to hybridize with sequences that flank the targeted region with a common long adapter sequence fig 1a-b.

we obtained far more colonies when using lasso capture material compared to mip capture material 20000 versus hundreds the same was true for complete coverage of unique target orfs observed by sequencing 640 versus 14 fig.

using capture conditions optimal for massively multiplexed cloning we evaluated the ability of lasso probes to capture two individual full length orfs from a mammalian cell-derived cdna library.

lasso cloned orfs include their native start and stop codons while maintaining their intended reading frames resulting libraries can thus be expressed using standard vectors for functional biomedical screening applications.

to confirm the identities of those captured orfs the captured tp53 d133a and rplp0 were cloned into pminit vector neb by using neb pcr cloning kit.

