c--comparison group.ppi--proton pump inhibitor.bmi--body mass index.gerd--gastroesophageal reflux disease.table 2. subdivision of all patients into four categories according to results of the glucose hmbt.were measured immediately after sample collection using a gas chromatography quintron microlyzer0.005-2-3 ppm or 5 of full scale for hand ch  and thebreath test parameters and identification of sbbohmbt--hydrogenmethane breath test.

ppm--part per million.duration of ppi treatment on the odds of having a positive glucose hmbt in ppit.discussionin this study we confirmed a significantly greater prevalence of a positive glucose hmbt among patients taking ppis than in c and that ppi therapy is an independent risk factor for sbbo development.there are several studies evaluating the long-term effects of ppi treatment including sbbo.

as seen on figure a mean h2 levels measured at 15 min intervals were similar or significantly higher in the sbbo-positive ppit compared to ssbo-positive c. we also found that ppit compared to c even if their peak breath h2 or ch4 did not meet criteria to be considered as having sbbo also had significantly higher baseline maxi- mum peak as well as mean h2 table  and all mean h2 levels at each sampling of the breath test figure a.ch4baseline ch4 did not differ significantly between ppit and c table .

c--comparison group.reported that applying the criteria that takes into account only breath h2 the detection of sbbo was quite high in ibs-ppit as well as ibs group 46.2 versus 56.3. they also showed that ch4 detection on a lactulose hmbt was significantly lower in ibs- ppit compared to ibs group 7.5 versus 15.4. these results cannot be directly compared to ours because of different type of breath test used in the study and different characteristics of the study group.

an important advance of this work was very precise characterization of the study and comparison group and14c-d-xylose breath testpereira et al 1998 uk2476self-controlaspirate culturea lactulose hbtaspirate cultureh210 ppm--yes62.50ppit--proton pump inhibitors treated patients.sbbo--small bowel bacterial overgrowth.h2--hydrogen.

hbt--hydrogen breath test.hmbt--hydrogenmethane breath test.na--not applicable.n--number.very selective inclusionexclusion criteria.

we found that ppit had all h2 test parameters baseline h2 levels maximum peak of h2 as well as mean h2 through the whole test significantly higher than c. even those ppit who did not meet the criteria of breath test positivity had statistically higher breath h2 levels compared to c. although we did not observe significant differences in ch4 excretion between groups 19.4 of ppit and 12.9 of c would have had a false-negative hmbt results had ch4 not been taken into account.

mello c s tahan s melli l c rodrigues m s de mello r m scaletsky i c and de morais m b 2012 methane production and small intestinal bacterial overgrowth in children living in a slum world j. gastroenterol.

32 44-9lombardo l giostra a vigano l tabone m grassi a gionco m rovera g bo a malvasi p and use and appropriateness study mauriziano hospital group 2015 misuse of proton pump inhibitors a survey on a general population in proton pump inhibitors ppis ed b parkers hauppauge ny nova science publishers pp 51-9canani r b cirillo p roggero p romano c malamisura b terrin g passariello a manguso f morelli l guarino a and working group on intestinal infections of the italian society of pediatric gastroenterology hepatology and nutrition sigenp 2006 therapy with gastric acidity inhibitors increases the risk of acute gastroenteritis and community-acquired pneumonia in children pediatrics targownik l e lix l m metge c j prior h j leung s and leslie w d 2008 use of proton pump inhibitors and risk of osteoporosis-related fractures cmaj bouwknegt m van pelt w kubbinga m e weda m and havelaar a h 2014 potential association between the recent increase in campylobacteriosis incidence in the netherlands and proton-pump inhibitor use--an ecological study eurosurv.

ppit and c underwent a glucose h2ch4 breath test hmbt to determine the presence of sbbo.

c--comparison group.h2--hydrogen.

c--comparison group.h2--hydrogen.

c--comparison group.h2--hydrogen.

c--comparison group.h2--hydrogen.

this is also the first study which demonstrate such a precise analysis and comparison of h2ch4 excretion parameters in ppit and c. the most important and novel finding of our study was that ppit compared to c have higher baseline h2 levels the h2 maximum peak and mean h2 values through the whole test even if their peak breath h2 or ch4 did not meet criteria to be considered as having sbbo.

