doi 10.1002etc.37562178addition to waterborne exposure shredders can also be affected by fungicides via their diet first fungicides can accumulate on leaf material and cause toxic effects when co-ingested with the leaf substrate 1213. second negative effects of these substances on leaf-associated microorganisms and particularly fungal leaf decomposers may indicate detrimental effects on microbial conditioning and thus food quality for shredders 814.the repeated preventive application of fungicides during the growing season may give rise to chronic season-long exposure toward low fungicide sum concentrations 15 that may nonetheless reach the mgl range even in the base flow of agricultural streams 16. however most studies see e.g.

asterisks indicate significant differences p  0.05 compared with the control.counting caused by animals hiding in the fpom layer that formed in the streams given that mean abundance was higher in this treatment in the following week 22. the occurrence of lethal effects late during the experiment indicates that the long-term exposure exhausted the gammarids' compensatory mechanisms to cope with the waterborne and diet-related fungicide effects such mechanisms can include lower leaf consumption--suggesting an overall lower activity 47--or a lower feces production which is indicative of a more efficient use of consumed food 18. these mechanisms were however not sufficient to prevent negative physiological effects on g. fossarum when subjected to the same fungicide mixture via the same effect pathways as investigated in the present study for 24 d 18 suggesting the accumulation of physiological damages ultimately resulting in death when animals are chronically exposed as was the case during the present study.

during the termination of the population experiment in the control streams n 14 6 or streams exposed to the fungicide mixture n 14 7. asterisks indicate significant differences p  0.05 of the fungicide treatment compared with the control.table 3. mean lipid content of gammarids of different size classes exposed either to the control or the fungicide treatmentlipid content mgmg gammaridaan 3 except for the smallest size class n 1 95 confidence intervals shown in parentheses.bsignificantly different from control.moreover in the present study lethal and sublethal effects were observed in gammarid populations i.e.

we hypothesized that the fungicide treatment would affect fungal growth and bacterial density over the long term but would leave microbial decomposition unaffected because of functional redundancy 8. further we anticipated that the combined action of waterborne toxicity and diet-related effects of fungicides would affect the structure fitness and functioning of gammarus populations 1318 and effects were assumed to exacerbate over the course of the experiment.materials and methodsstream facilityour experiment was conducted in the landau laboratory stream microcosm facility the system provided 16 independent stainless-steel artificial streams 120 cm 30 cm 20 cm water volume 40 l serving as experimental units.

because all components of the mixture were already detected in the same streams over a year's time 20 the detection of fungicide mixtures is common and even the base flow of agriculturally affected streams can contain fungicide sum concentrations in the mgl range 16 this model mixture can be considered field-relevant.

population streams and c the timeline of events in both the conditioning and population streams note that the start of the population assay was set as day 0. see text for details.

streams were analyzed for each of the size classes 1.3 mm1.6 mm and 2.0 mm only 1 replicate comprising animals from different streams was used for the class 1.0 mm because of the low number of animals in this size class.

it is of note that no replicate streams were available to assess the long-term exposed leaves and the design corresponded to a paired-system experiment 33. thus assumptions for null- hypothesis significance testing were violated 34.to assess fatty acid composition of leaf material andgammarids multivariate homogeneity of group dispersions was checked before testing for significant differences using permuta- tional multivariate analysis of variance permanova which was performed on bray-curtis dissimilarities whereas data were square-root transformed to reduce the effect of dominant fatty acids 35. similarity percentage analysis simper was then used to assess which fatty acids were primarily responsible for the observed differences in fatty acid composition and nonmetric multidimensional scaling nmds ordination plots were prepared as a graphical representation of the dissimilarities between groups 36. the software r ver 3.2.4 for mac together with the add-on package vegan was used for all statistics and figures.results and discussionlong-term exposed leavesas hypothesized long-term fungicide exposure in the conditioning streams affected leaf-associated microbial com- munities bacterial density was only significantly altered after 1 d of exposure 101 higher than control p 0.042 figure 2a which may be considered a chance finding.

in contrast the significantly lower abundance after 1 wk in the fungicide treatment is most likely related to imprecisetable 2. results of similarity percentage analysis simper the 10 fatty acids fas contributing most to dissimilarities between control and fungicide treatments for leaves and gammarids and their cumulative contributionsleavesgammaridsala 14 a-linolenic acid la 14 linoleic afigure 6. a mean at days 7 14 21 28 49 and 56 or median at days 35 and 42 number of gammarids and b mean number of amplexus pairs formed by gammarids that either inhabited control streams n 6 or streams exposed to the fungicide mixture n 7 over the course of 56 d with 95 confidence intervals.

first because juveniles are usually considered more sensitive to waterbornefigure 7. a mean gammarid biomass solid and dashed lines indicate the mean biomass and the associated 95 confidence intervals of animals at the beginning of the experiment respectively b median number of produced juveniles and c mean amount of fine particulate organic matter fpom produced in control streams n 6 or streams exposed to the fungicide mixture n 7 with 95 confidence intervals.

fine particulate organic matter in the streams may have also included animal carcasses and large amounts of biomass of particle-bound microorganisms 5 that may have masked effects on gammarids' feces production.

moreover higher trophic levels also may be affected because gammarus represents a key prey for a variety of aquatic and terrestrial predators 6. these potential ecosystem implications may even be exacerbated over time because of the likely lower recruitment as a result of the lower number of juveniles associated with fungicide-exposed populations figure 7b.conclusionthe present study closes an important gap between laboratory assessments of fungicide effects on shredders at the individual level 18 and community-level field assess- ments 9. thereby this research provides results that indicate far-reaching consequences of long-term exposure of decom- poser-detritivore systems toward fungicide mixtures for heterotrophic food webs--as a result of their bottom-up regulation 61--as well as the dynamics of detrital material fluxes in streams.

2015. effects of fungicides on decomposer communities and litter decompo-sition in vineyard streams.

aust j ecol 18117-143.artigas j majerholc j foulquier a margoum c volat b neyra m pesce s. 2012. effects of the fungicide tebuconazole on microbial capacities for litter breakdown in streams.

the expected chronic season-long exposures may however result in effects for microbial decomposers and shredders--via both waterborne and diet-related pathways-- deviating strongly from those triggered by the short-term exposure scenarios considered so far.to fill these gaps of knowledge the present study assessed the effects of chronic field-relevant exposure to a model mixture of 5 fungicides sum concentration 20 mgl table 1 on leaf-associated microorganisms and the population develop- ment of the amphipod shredder gammarus fossarum koch.

