in these conditions it is clear that the granules contain much more phosphorus than cytoplasm four to five times more phosphorus in the granules than cytoplasm de- pending on the strain.

these results suggest that the liquid acetate medium causes atable 4 relative atomic percentages atm of na mg p s ca and k in the poly-p granules and in the cytoplasm of the four bacterial strains b2 b4 b5 and b6 normalized to 100 after removal of contaminants c o and cl from the embedding resin and ti from the gridthe cap and mgp ratios were calculated for comparison with mineral phosphates and poly-p. the comparison of the concentrations in the granules and in the cytoplasmic compartment must take into account that the total proportion of c and cl organic matter and resin represents roughly 80 atm in the cytoplasm while it does not exceed 20 atm at the level of the granules depending of their size relative to the section thickness.

e f. these granules show a high density comparable with the one of granules found in strain b2.however strain b5 does not show areas with a low electron density.

g h. some hollow granules can also be observed as well as storage vesicles.the elemental composition of the bacterial suspensions and the granules was assessed through x-ray analyses and ele- mental mappings were achieved on the x-ray k-alpha emis- sion lines fig.

some of these bacteria contained granules the size of which exceeded 100 nm.keywords phosphorus recovery .

the mapping showed that mg is contained in the granules of the strains b4 b5 and b68024environ sci pollut res 2017 248017-8032table 2 similarity rates calculated between the microbiotas from raw samples cc bh ls and mq and enriched samples cc2 bh2 ls2 and mq2 and corresponding to phosphorus metabolism only.

on the other hand the amounts of p detected in the cytoplasm of bacteria may be attributed totable 3 richness s shannon's evenness e and shannon's diversity h indexes calculated on the basis of the data obtained through the biolog pm4a microplates phosphorus metabolism onlysamplespephpsmall granules not resolved in haadf-stem.

phosphorus was almost absent in the resin much present in the granules and to a lesser extent also present in the cytoplasm of the cells.

an analysis of metabolic activities of sulfur and phosphorus highlighted strong modifications relat- ed to phosphorus and much less distinguishable effects with sulfur.

however it is not possi- ble to distinguish the phosphorus sources which could be re- lated to phosphorus accumulation because the consortiacontain a complex microbial community.

finally electron microscopy was applied to the strains and allowed to confirm the presence of polyphosphate granules.

the bacteria obtained through this meth- odology were next identified and the occurrence of polyphosphate granules characteristic of paos was proven by electron microscopy on the most relevant strains isolated.

for temstem aliquots were dehydrated through the ethanolacetone series with or without previous ben bloc staining in 2.5 uranium ace- tate aqueous to enhance the contrast of the bacterial struc- tures and allow a better location of the granules hayat .

2ctgx genbank accession number ku133330.characterization of potential paos through electron microscopythe research of poly-p granules inside the bacterial cells was the final step of our work.

it has not been possible to observe intracellular granules through esem.

