butyrate has been shown to inhibit murine splenic t cell proliferation and to increase apoptosis of activated t cells via hdac inhibition hdaci55 70. therefore we postulate that butyrate dampens enteric-bacteria induced lp t cell activation via hdaci resulting in the modification of gene transcripts involved in t cell activation cytokine production andor cell death.conversely given the heterogeneous nature of our lpmc cultures butyrate may also inhibit lp t cell activation indirectly through its effects on other cells such as mdcs which wedillon et al.page 9have shown to be critical in activation of lp t cells in response to enteric bacteria in vitro65 67. studies are now underway to determine if the butyrate-dependent decrease in t cell responses following exposure to bacteria are driven by inhibition of t cell activation andor proliferation increased death of activated t cells or most likely a combination of these factors and to address the signaling pathways that control these responses.

exogenous butyrate suppressed enteric gram-negative bacteria-driven lp t cell activation and hiv-1 infection levels in vitro.conclusions--reductions in mucosal butyrate from diminished colonic bpb may exacerbate pathobiont driven gut t cell activation and hiv replication thereby contributing to hiv-associated mucosal pathogenesis.keywordshiv-1 infection microbiome mucosal immunology butyrate t cellsintroductionhuman immunodeficiency virus hiv-1 disease is associated with dramatic alterations in the gut-associated lymphoid tissue galt which occur early in the course of infection and contribute to hiv-associated chronic immune activation and disease progression1.

for instance soluble fibers with high degrees of polymerization such as inulin are fermented in the gut which results in scfa production 71-73. using a limited dietary questionnaire our study observations suggest that hiv-1 infection may disrupt the normal association between diet and ra of bpb species thereby potentially contributing to the dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiome seen during hiv-1 infection.butyrate plays several important roles in colonocyte function including acting as a metabolic energy source for colonocytes58-60 increasing tight junction-mediated barrier integrity74 and protecting colonocytes from cellular damage and stress 61 75. further by decreasing nfkb activation in metabolically stressed colonic epithelial cell lines butyrate subsequently prevented transcytosis of e. coli in an in vitro epithelial cellbacteria co-culture model 59. although we cannot infer causality our observations that the abundance of r. intestinalis inversely associated with indicators of mt in hiv-1 infected persons suggest that reduced levels of butyrate may be a contributing factor to hiv-1-associated epithelial barrier breakdown that leads to mt.butyrate impacts cellular responses via g-coupled protein receptor gpr signaling gpr41 gpr43 and gpr109a andor through inhibition of histone deacetylases hdac 46 76. in our in vitro lpmc model higher doses of butyrate were associated with the greatest inhibition of enteric bacteria-induced t cell activation and cytokine production in the presence or absence of hiv-1.

finally to address potential mechanisms we directly investigated the impact of exogenous butyrate on pathobiont-driven t cell activation and hiv-1 infection using an in vitro lamina propria mononuclear cell lpmc model.methodsclinical study participants and study designeighteen hiv-1 infected adult participants who were art-naive or had not been on treatment for more than 7 days prior to the study and 14 hiv-1 uninfected adult control participants were enrolled into this cross-sectional study at the university of coloradodillon et al.page 4anschutz medical campus.

this study was approved by the colorado multiple institutional review board comirb at the university of colorado anschutz medical campus.clinical study sample processing and analysisthe collection storage and processing of rectal swabs colon biopsies plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells pbmc from these study participants is extensively detailed elsewhere 28 29. indicators of systemic inflammation il-6 high sensitivity c-reactive protein hscrp intestinal fatty acid binding protein ifabp lp-pla2 ifng tnfa and il-10 peripheral blood and colonic cd4 and cd8 t cell activation cd38hla-dr and levels of colonic mdc activation cd40 expression were previously evaluated in these study subjects and the methods detailed elsewhere 28 29bacterial 16s ribosomal rna rrna gene sequencing and identification of bpb specieslaboratory and analytic methods used to determine species level taxonomic classification of 16s rrna sequence datasets generated from these study participants are detailed extensively elsewhere 28 29 43. a species was identified when a sequence overlapped a silva62 database sequence by at least 95 sequence length with at least 99 sequence identity and the taxonomy of the database hit matched the taxonomy returned by sina63.sybr-green quantitative pcr for butyryl-coa-coa transferase transcriptsbutyryl-coa-coa transferase transcripts were quantified by qpcr using sybr green pcr reagent supplementary methods.virus and bacteria stock preparationhiv-1bal aids research and reference program 510 and mock-infected supernatant stocks were generated and frozen in single use aliquots at -80degc as previously described43 64. prevotella stercorea dsm18206 dsmz braunschweig germany was grown under anaerobic conditions enumerated and stored in single use aliquots at -80degc as previously detailed29 43.hiv-1 infection of lpmcslpmcs were isolated from macroscopically normal human jejunum tissue n9 and cultured in vitro as detailed previously 43 64-67 and in supplementary methods.

butyrate has been reported to play important roles in colonic t regulatory cell differentiation 52-54 and in modulating both gut and blood antigen presenting cell apc and t cell activation 55-57. in addition butyrate is an important energy source for colonic epithelial cells and promotes epithelial barrier integrity 58-61. however despite the known immunoregulatory role of butyrate little is known about its role in regulating mucosal inflammation in the setting of hiv-1 infection.in this work we compared the ra of bpb species in the colonic mucosa and stool microbiomes of untreated persons with chronic hiv-1 infection versus uninfected persons.

butyrate at 2mm was similarly able to decrease p. stercorea driven lp cd4 and cd8 t cell activation as well as cytokine production in the absence of hiv-1 infection supplementary figure 3butyrate inhibits p. stercorea-driven hiv-1 infection in lp cd4 t cellswe next investigated butyrate's effects on p. stercorea-driven lp t cell infection.

lines represent median values a-c. statistical analysis was performed using the wilcoxon matched-pairs signed rank test to determinedillon et al.page 16differences in matched groups a the mann-whitney test to determine differences between unmatched groups a-c and spearman test to determine correlations between variables d.dillon et al.page 17figure 2. butyrate reduces p. stercorea-enhanced lp t cell activation and hiv-1 productive infectionlamina propria mononuclear cells lpmc were spinoculated with ccr5-tropic hiv-1bal and cultured with or without p. stercorea and butyrate 0.2mm 2mm for 4 days and levels of t cell activation cytokine production and productive hiv-1 infection determined n9.percentages of lp cd4 a and cd8 b t cells co-expressing cd38 and hla-dr were assessed using multi-color flow cytometry.

abundance of r. intestinalis a dominant bpb which was decreased to the greatest degree in untreated hiv-1 infected study participants was inversely associated with indicators of systemic mt immune activation and vascular inflammation.moreover in vitro studies demonstrated that higher levels 2mm of butyrate inhibited pathobiont-driven lp t cell activation cytokine production il-17a and ifng and hiv-1 infection of cd4 t cells whereas lower butyrate levels lacked this strong immunomodulatory effect.

moreover we demonstrated that commensal bacteria of the prevotella genus have direct pro-inflammatory potential by activating gut mdc and increasing hiv-1 replication and cd4 t cell death in an in vitro human intestinal cell model 29 43. therefore although the increase in prevotella observed in our study 28 29 as well as in others 33 36 39 may not be entirely due to hiv-1 infection their increased abundance in the colonic mucosa of msm could potentially still contribute to hiv-1- associated gut pathology.microbial metabolites byproducts produced by intestinal bacteria are also important in influencing immune responses 26 44. recent studies have highlighted changes in the functional activity of the microbiota during hiv-1 infection and alterations in a number of metabolic pathways identified using metagenomics approaches 35 39 40. in our study using 16s rrna sequencing28 we observed that colonic biopsies from hiv-1 infected study participants had significantly lower ra of bacterial families lachnospiraceae ruminococcaceae and genera coprococcus within the firmicutes phylum that are known to contain species that produce the short chain fatty acid scfa butyrate45 compared to uninfected participants.

butyrate was assessed at high 2mm and low 0.2mm concentrations similar to concentrations used in other published studies 56 69 70. butyrate at these concentrations did not significantly p 0.154 reduce the number of cd4 t cells in unstimulated mock- infected cultures indicating a lack of general cellular toxicity.in the absence of butyrate the addition of p. stercorea to hiv-infected lpmc cultures significantly increased lp cd4 t cell activation levels above those induced with infection alone fig.

live p. stercorea were added to appropriate wells of antibiotic-containing media at 2.5 bacteria to 1 lpmc and harvested at 4 days post infection.dillon et al.page 5measurement of t cell activation and infection levels in the in vitro lpmc modelmeasurements of cd4 and cd8 t cell activation and productive hiv-1 infection of cd4 t cells were carried out using multi-color flow cytometry as previously described 43 64 65. specific clones and fluorophores are detailed in supplementary table 2. all flow cytometry acquisition was performed on an lsrii flow cytometer bd biosciences san jose ca.

addition of 2mm butyrate suppressed p. stercorea-driven t cell infection to levels observed with virus infection alone whereas 0.2mm butyrate had minimal effect fig.

1d table 3.butyrate reduces p. stercorea-driven activation of hiv-1 infected lp t cells and pro- inflammatory cytokine production in vitrofindings from our clinical study led to the hypothesis that a loss of butyrate might exacerbate p. stercorea-driven intestinal t cell activation.

disclaimers the authors have no disclaimers.authors' contributions smd and jk participated equally in the conceptual design of the studies performed experiments analyzed the data and helped draft the manuscript ejl processed clinical samples performed assays and analyzed data kg and mls measured butyryl-coa coa transferase gene expression ga performed endoscopies sg and all assisted with clinical study assays amd processed intestinal tissue dnf performed bacterial species analysis of mucosal and stool samples mdm provided access to surgical samples ccw participated in the conceptual design of the studies and helped draft the manuscript.dillon et al.page 2butyrate on gut t cell activation and hiv-1 infection was evaluated using an ex vivo human intestinal cell culture model.methods--species were identified in 16s ribosomal rna sequence datasets.

