ab antibiotic abjb1 antibiotic and l. rhamnosus jb-1 ct control pnd postnatal day ra relative abundance.ruminococcaceae and dehalobacteriaceae supplementary figs 11 and 13. the large increase in proteobacteria was induced by the family enterobacteriaceae which represented 45 of all bacteria in ab-treated mice 25 in abjb1 mice and o1 in ct mice supplementary figs 11 and 14. overall male and female mice exhibited similar gut microbiota composition supplementary fig.

cessation of ab treatment after weaning allowed a significant reduction of proteobacteria in ab and abjb1 mice at pnd42 but its level was still largely higher than in ct. the phylum deferribacteres was almost totally absent in all mice treated with ab and abjb1 while present in all ct mice at both study time points.

in addition lactobacillus rhamnosus jb- 1 have demonstrated psychoactive and neuroactive properties by reducing anxiety and depression-like behaviours in healthy mice via the vagus nerve.here we investigate the long-term consequences of a low doseof penicillin given to mice during the perinatal period from 1 week before birth to weaning on gut microbiota intestinal barrier function bbb integrity cytokines expression andbehaviour.

post hoc tests showed that ab-treated mice spent less time in the novel mouse chamber compared to ct p 0.002 and abjb1 mice p 0.10 2c.

mice treated with ab earlyin life had 3.5 times more risk to become resilient to stress compared to ct mice relative risk 14 3.5 ci 95 0.56-22.08.ab induced major gut microbial changes in dams and off- spring.

e-g representative western blot of tight junctions proteins claudin-5 and occludin performed in hippocampus of male mice and quantification by densitometry normalized to the loading control b-actin in total n 14 5 ct 8 ab and 4 abjb1 mice.

in our current study even after 3 weeks of antibiotic cessation mice still exhibited significant behavioural and social alterations suggesting that the pre-weaning bacterial colonizationis important to durably establish certain behaviours as suggested previously.interestingly we found that some of the ab-treated mice exhibited aggressive behaviour in the resident-intruder paradigm and spent more time interacting with the cd-1 aggressor.

mice with an interaction ratio o100 were considered susceptible to stress while mice with an interaction ratio 4100 were resilient to stress.

here we investigate whether low-dose penicillin in late pregnancy and early postnatal life induces long-term effects in the offspring of mice.

the antibiotic-treated mice exhibit impaired anxiety-like and social behaviours and display aggression.

recent experimental studies have found that alteration of the gut microbiota induced by early life ab exposure may drive lasting immune and metabolic consequences in mice.

showed in mice that the pre-weaning period is critical for antibiotic-driven shift in microbiota to alter the immune response and increase susceptibility to allergy.

in addition cox et al.showed that mice treated continuously with low-dose penicillin from 1 week before birth until weaning exhibited higher body weight and fat mass in adulthood although the microbial structure returned to normal after 4 weeks of ab cessation.

complete absence of intestinal bacteria in germ-free mice results in modification of blood- brain barrier bbb permeability impaired immune response of the microglia increased myelination hyperactivity of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis changes in brain neurochemistry and decreased anxiety and socialbehaviours.

germ-free mice provide useful models toestablish possible causality in rodent gut microbiota-brain interactions but provide only suggestive clinical relevance.

