to investigate the influence of lc supplementation on piglets' gut microbiome and compare the differences in community composition between lc and antibiotics with zno addition we assessed the cecal microbial community by 16s rrna gene sequencing with three treatments consisting of basal diet ctr group basal diet with low-molecular-weight chitosan lc group and basal diet with antibiotic and zno az group.

differences were considered significant at p  0.05. heatmap diagrams were plotted in r environment v3.1.2 .sequence data accession numberraw paired-end reads were submitted to the sequence read archive of the ncbi accession number srp104359.resultseffects of lc or az on the ph in cecal samplesthe cecal ph value in the piglets fed with lc was determined to be 6.19 which was significantly lower than that in the control 6.55 p  0.05. similarly compared to that in the control the cecal ph 6.33 was significantly lower in the piglets fed with az p  0.05. the ph between lc and az treatments was not significantly different p  0.05 supplementary table s2.characteristics of midgut bacteria community librariesat least 47083 sequence reads were obtained per sample and a total of 706251 high-quality sequences were used for later analysis supplementary table s3.

the results showed that three groups were distinctly different in the distributionof microbiota p  0.05 table 1 indicating that lc and az significantly affected the cecal bacterial structure when compared to ctr.effects of dietary lc and az on the composition of the cecal microbiotatwenty-two bacterial phyla were assigned in the lc az and ctr groups and 14 of them were shared among them supplementary table s6.

beta diversity analysis showed that community structure was distinctly different among the ctr lc and az treatments indicating that either lc or az treatment modulated the piglet microbiota.

instead 148 72 and 108 unique otus were identified in ctr lc and az groups respectively.effects of dietary lc and az on alpha and beta bacterial diversitywe compared bacterial diversity pd and shannon index and richness observed species and chao index indices for alpha- diversity.

pd index in the lc group or az group was significantly lower than that in the ctr group p  0.05 showing that the bacterial diversity in cecum was decreased by az or lc figure 1b.

about community richness indices observed species and chao there was no significant difference between lc and ctr indicating that lc did not affect bacterial richness.

additionally supplementary lc only decreased the gut bacterial diversity rather than bacterial richness.for beta diversity analysis we examined the relationshipsin cecal microbiome between the control az supplement and lc addition using nmds.

the relative abundance of desulfovibrio in treatments lc and az was significantly lower than that in the control group p  0.05 figure 1h.function prediction of the microbial community in the cecumgiven the distinct microbiome changes within the lc and az pigs compared to ctr pigs we tested whether the different treatments would lead to functional changes in each microbiome.

in addition lc group significantly increased the abundance of glycan biosynthesis and metabolism whenmetabolism 15 different ko terms metabolism of cofactors and vitamins 9 energy metabolism 8 glycan biosynthesis and metabolism 6 figure 3 suggesting that the drastically increased prevotella by lc and az played an important function among the intestinal microbiota.

collectively our results demonstrated lc differently modulated the intestinal microbiota in piglets using a different mechanism from that in az.in this study the supplementation of lc 50 mgkg to weaned piglets significantly increased the cecal relative abundance of bacteroidetes figure 1g.

2017. collectively prevotella could be a potential microbial marker for modulation effects of gut microflora by lc or az supplementation.an interesting finding is that the relative abundance of succinivibrio was increased 38-fold in lc group while it was decreased 0.17-fold in az group compared to that in ctrfigure 1h.

terpenoids and polyketides serve numerous biochemical functions such as quinones in electron transport chains membrane components hormones anti-microbial and anti-parasites.moreover lc increased the abundances of riboflavin vb2 kinase and iron complex related proteins figure 4. lc effectively chelates some vitamins and heavy metals such as fe3 varma et al.

82182. doi 1 key laboratory of animal nutrition and feed science south china of ministry of agriculture state key laboratory of livestock and poultry breeding guangdong public laboratory of animal breeding and nutrition guangdong key laboratory of animal breeding and nutrition institute of animal science guangdong academy of agricultural sciences guangzhou china 2 agro-biological gene research center guangdong academy of agricultural sciences guangzhou china 3 hebei depond animal health care science and technology co. ltd shijiazhuang china 4 department of microbiology and molecular genetics michigan state university east lansing mi united states 5 guangdong key laboratory of integrated agro-environmental pollution control and management guangdong institute of eco-environmental science  technology guangzhou china 6 shanghai institute of applied physics chinese academy of sciences shanghai chinalow-molecular-weight chitosan lc promoted growth in weaned piglets as an alternative to feed-grade antibiotics.

lc decreased ph more than az did in the cecum both compared to ctr.

