12-strength tryptic soy broth tsb sigma st. louis mo was used to grow overnight cultures that provided the inoculum for biofilm experiments.interspecies inhibition testinterspecies inhibition was tested by following cross streak assay method with minor modifications krishnakumar and dooslin mercy bai 2014. single streak 4-6 mm diameter of one species was streaked on the surface of a congo red agar plate and the other three species were streaked on the same plate separately at perpendicular direction and incubated at room temperature for 48 h. triplicates were maintained for each species to assess the interspecies inhibition activity.continuous-culture drip-flow biofilm reactor systemdrip-flow biofilm reactors dfr incubated at room tempera- ture were used to cultivate biofilms goeres et al.

2014. more studies on gene expression in specific localization of each species in the biofilm are needed to further investigate the molecular mechanisms behind these observations.in conclusion this study clearly shows that increasing species numbers in biofilms makes the spatial structure more dynamic and complex hinting the distinct interspe- cies interactions crucially dependent on the surrounding species which might help to explain the increasedresistance of multispecies biofilm to antimicrobial agents and enhanced virulence to host in some chronic infections compared with single-species biofilms simoes et al.

p. amylolyticus only has capability to gener- ate separated and clustered biomass but not too much.mixed-species biofilm shows significantly increased biomass compared to the best biofilm former in mono-species one- way anova p-value  0.001. the non-bacterial whiteness observed in m. oxydans in b is caused by a thin agarose 0.5 wv covered on the biofilms in case of losing bio- mass when performing fluorescent in situ hybridization fish.fig.

spe- cifically we show that the presence of m. oxydans affects the spatial localization of x. retroflexus in this community presumably enhancing its competitive capability because increasing numbers of studies have suggested that the spatial positioning of cells in the biofilm fronttop layer strongly enhances their reproductive fitness nadell and foster 2010 dyken et al.

residing in biofilms can enhance the fitness of bacteria in hostile environments such as the human body compared with when grown in planktonic conditions or mono-species biofilm hoiby et al.

the data revealed that the local aggregation of m. oxydans was functioning as a driving factor affecting its own growth fitness in the devel- opment of the four-species biofilm.microbacterium oxydans did not establish itself in the biofilm unless all other species were also presentto study the establishment of the low-abundant m. oxy- dans and its interactions and dependence on the other species triple-species biofilms were run and sampled at different time points followed by fish for clsm observa- tion fig.

3. the growth fitness and spatial patterning of species in triple-species biofilms at the presence of m. oxydans.a c e. relative growth fitness of species in triple-species biofilms to that in the four-species biofilm.

and burmolle m. 2016 study- ing bacterial multispecies biofilms where to start trends microbiol 24 503-513.schillinger c. petrich a. lux r. riep b. kikhney j. friedmann a. et al.

it is worth mentioning that the spatial structure of biofilms we show here is condensed and the spatial positioning of species is relative because most of the water in biofilms is dehydrated before the hybridization however the accuracy of the results is not affected narisawa et al.

2. the data showed that the four- species community provided favourable microenviron- ments for the existence of m. oxydans and p. amylolyticus.local spatial organization of m. oxydans was important for its existence in the four-species biofilmto test whether the increased bio-volume of m. oxydans and p. amylolyticus was associated with their spatial orga- nization four-species biofilms were run and sampled at different time points followed by fish for clsm analysis fig.

the other three species were crucially needed for the successful inclusion of m. oxydans in the four-species biofilm where x. retroflexus was consistently positioned in the top layer of the mature four-species biofilm.

2016. in this study we found that the poor single-species biofilm producers especially m. oxydans was shown to obtain much higher growth fitness in the mature 24 h four-species biofilm even though it only accounted for less than 1 of both total bio-volume and total cell numbers of the multispecies community.

therefore representative 3d images of the 24 h triple-species biofilm excluding m. oxydans were recon- structed and compared with the four-species biofilm.

magnification 3 40. scale bar 50 mm.bar chart depicting the spatial positioning shift of species in the triple-species biofilm shown in a in succession.bar chart depicting the spatial positioning shift of species in the four-species biofilm where m. oxydans shows locally clumped distribution at 24 h. error bars represent standard error from three biological replicates.

spatial positioning and growth fitness of species in the 24 hour four-species biofilm where m. oxydans is ran- domly distributed.a b. structure of the four-species biofilm with and without the channel for p. amylolyticus.

