this concept of ''innate immune memory'' stems from observations that organisms that lack adaptive immune systems such as plants and invertebrates can generate resistance to infection as well as vaccination studies that show protection from reinfec- tion can occur when t and b cells are lacking this antigen nonspecific innate immune memory depends on the nature and sequence of exposure to immune stimuli and might explain why secondary bacterial infections are relatively common following viral infections.

in this context we examine the current understanding of the impact of the microbiota in immune development and function and in the setting of the threshold for immune responses that maintains the balance between tolerance and chronic inflammation in the lung.

disturbance of microbes present at mucosal surfaces by inappropriate or serial antibiotic usage also affects immune development and might cause a microbe that is normally a commensal to become pathogenic.the environment that a child grows up in also has a part to play in the education of the respiratory immune system because epidemiological studies show that premature birth birth order number of siblings living with pets living next to a major road and parental smoking all increase the risks for developing lung disease in later life.

although the molecularmechanisms that result in increased immune responses are not known it is thought that these environmental ''triggers'' initiate a series of reactions starting with the epithelium.metabolism and nutrition key mediators of the gut-lung axisnutrition is a central parameter governing gut health however a growing body of literature also shows that diet impacts the systemic immune system and lung inflammation.

although a great deal remains to be discov- ered concerning the relative contribution of the local pulmo- nary microbiota as compared to that of the gut or skin in determining generation of lung immunity a greater under- standing of how the pulmonary immune system is trained or matured by encounter with bacteria viruses or fungi is essen- tial to determine novel strategies for disease prevention and treatment.immunity 46 april 18 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc. 549figure 1. maintenance of homeostasis in the respiratory tract is tightly regulated by a series of resident cells and immune pathwaysmacrophages that reside in the airway lumen together with the epithelial cells that line the air- ways sense external stimuli via a range of surface receptors.

in addition to this barrier function the pulmonary epithelium is immunologi-cally active and is pivotal in the regula- tion of immune responses in the lung .pulmonary epithelial cells are able to secrete a wide range of cytokines and chemokines as well as being in intimate contact with cells of the immune system.

thus this is a direc- tion of future research that will shed further light on the gut-lung axis and consequently some of the fundamental principles that determine lung homeostasis .critical checkpoints dictate pulmonary immune maturationthe status of pulmonary immune homeostasis and the local mi- crobiota is constantly shifting and remains dynamic across the life course reacting to environmental change and circumstance but there are critical checkpoints--in utero in early childhood and during old age that have particular emphasis .

lung homeostasis influence of age microbes and the immune systemclare m. lloydand benjamin j. marsland1inflammation repair  development section national heart and lung institute imperial college london london sw7 2az uk 2service de pneumologie faculte' de biologie et de me' decine centre hospitalier universitaire vaudoise-universite' lausanne lausanne 1011 switzerlandcorrespondence c.m.l.

pulmonary immune homeostasis is maintained by a network of tissue-resident cells that continually monitor the external environment and in health instruct tolerance to innocuous inhaled particles while ensuring that efficient and rapid immune responses can be mounted against invading pathogens.

we propose that host interactions with microbes are critical for estab- lishing the immune landscape of the lungs.introductionmaturation of the pulmonary immune system occurs in an anti- gen-rich postnatal environment.

although this early life immune pro- gramming likely has implications for lifelong immune health there is little mechanistic evidence identifying underlying molecular pathways.

many of the mole- cules secreted by epithelial cells in response to danger have the ability to regulate immune reactions and recruit cells of the innate and adaptive immune system.

in fact the presence of ''pathogens'' or perhaps more correctly ''patho- bionts''--which are members of the microbiota that stimulate the immune system even in the absence of overt inflammation but can cause disease if they bloom and there is consequently bacterial dysbiosis--might be central to a balanced immune system.

these data highlight the opportunities to promote immune deviation even in utero how- ever it will be important to determine the immune mechanism in humans.an extensive collection of research has highlighted the post- natal period as critical for long-term pulmonary health.

this concept is supported by data from animal models where there is a time window within the first 2-3 weeks of life essentially pre-weaning where microbial exposure is required for full immune maturation most notably concerning inkt cells  control of ige class switching   and pd-l1-toleragenic pathways on dc  .maturation of the immune system occurs throughout child- hood in the antigen-rich postnatal environment.

