culture-indepen- dent and metagenomic investigations of the a. colombica garden and refuse pile have pre- viously been conducted - providing an opportunity to characterize and study the microbial community of an insect gut for which the microbial community composition of the surrounding environment is well defined.here through analysis of high-resolution illumina community metagenomes and ssu amplicon sequences we investigate the phylogenetic and functional diversity of the microbial atta colombica leaf-cutter ants remove waste material from their nest a and dispose of it in a single refuse pile on the rainforest floor b. the most conspicuous insects in the leaf-cutter ant refuse pile were juvenile panchlora cockroaches c which for this study were collected from the top 5 cm of the refuse pile arrow in b. adult panchlora cockroaches d deposit young in the refuse pile and their young consume and thrive on the nutrient rich material as evidenced by a refuse packed gut and enlarged fat body e. individually dissected guts were sectioned into the foregut midgut and hindgut f. photo credit robert cullen a eringontang be justin c. touchon cd.communities within the juvenile panchlora foregut midgut and hindgut .

hindgut is similar to that found in the hindgut of a wild cockroach blattella germanica  which could indicate the existence of a core microbial community in the hindgut of omnivorous cockroaches regardless of diet.

sec- ond by comparing the panchlora gut sections leaf-cutter ant gardens and refuse piles each a microbial ecosystem associated with the degradation and utilization of the same partially degraded leaf fragments originally harvested by the ants we examine how environmental fac- tors influence microbial community diversity and structure and how interacting microbial ecosystems influence one another in a natural setting.

in order to determine if the diversity of these microbial communities each degrading the same nutrient source varied depending on whether or not that community is associated with a host we used 16s amplicons to compare the microbial communities associated with the refuse pile an example of a free-living microbial community niche the leaf-cutter ant garden an exam- ple of a host-associated external digestion niche   and the panchlora gut an example of a host-associated internal digestion niche.

the unweighted unifrac analysis suggests that the microbial communities of the panchlora gut sections the a. colombica garden and the a. colombica refuse piles are each distinct and that while the microbial communities of the garden and refuse pile each shared highly similar community composition and membership the microbial communities of the panchlora gut sections were more distinct from one another.

first by comparing the microbial communities of the foregut midgut and hindgut we address to what extent the microbial diversity and community structure and function change along the length of cockroach alimentary tract.

regardless the high diversity and unique com- position of the hindgut microbial community suggests a degree of host-specificity that necessi- tates a mechanism for transfer between individuals.the 16s amplicons coupled with the unifrac analysis suggested that the microbial com- munities of the a. colombica refuse pile leaf-cutter ant garden and panchlora gut are all dis- tinct from one another.

in this study we characterized the microbial community composition of the panchlora cockroach foregut midgut and hindgut and compared these microbial com- munities to those of the already well defined and closely associated leaf-cutter ant fungus gar- dens and refuse piles.

while the hindgut was dominated by diverse firmicutes genera including lactococcus lactobacillus and clostridium and bacteroidetes genera such as bacteroides and parabacteroides the hindgut also harbored bacteria commonly found in the guts of ruminant mammals including fusobacteria ruminococus megasphaera and butyrivibrio -.while all minor members of the panchlora hindgut many of these genera or related taxa have been identified in other omnivorous cockroaches    and are likely among the diverse community members helping the cockroach to degrade and digest recalcitrant compo- nents of its food source.

the bacterial phyla that tend to dominate these microbial communities include firmicutes bacteroidetes proteobacteria and actinobacteria  - and the microbial communities of mammalian guts have generally been found to be more diverse than those of invertebrates .

we charac- terize the total microbial community of the juvenile panchlora cockroach assess the microbial community's capacity to degrade utilize and recycle the refuse material consumed by the cockroach and address two specific questions.

the close proximity of the ant refuse pile an example of a free-living microbial community the leaf-cutter ant garden an example of a host-associated external digestion system   and the panchlora gut an exampleof a host-associated internal digestion system offers a unique opportunity to examine the dynamics of multiple interacting microbial ecosystems.materials and methodswe acknowledge ministerio de ambiente de panama' miambiente and the smithsonian tropical research institute stri for permission to collect material in the republic of panama.cockroach collection and dissectiona total of 485 juvenile panchlora cockroaches were collected from the external refuse piles of the leaf-cutter ant atta colombica in gamboa panama latitude 9 7' 0 n longitude 79 42' 0 w from 7 to 22 november 2010. only the largest juvenile cockroaches 1.2-1.4 cm were collected from the top five cm of each refuse pile.

the microbial community diversity of the individual gut sections was compared to previously sequenced microbial communities associated with leaf-cutter ant gardens and refuse piles by using uni- frac  and performing both weighted and unweighted calculations.

the weighted unifrac analy- ses agree with the 16s amplicon results that suggest juvenile cockroaches consume the garden material most recently deposited on the refuse pile and support the hypothesis that while microorganisms consumed by the cockroach may partially seed the microbial community of the cockroach foregut the microbial community of each gut section is distinct.

although it has been proposed that the foregut of cockroaches is unfavorable for microbial activity  conditions and the extended food residence time in the cockroach foregut  appear to favor and dramatically enrich for specific members of the gammaproteobacteria.to analyze the shift in functional potential throughout the panchlora gut sections as well as to assess the similarity of these microbiomes to leaf-cutter ant gardens leaf-cutter ant refuse piles and the microbial communities of other well-studied insect gut environments weconducted a comparative analysis of the various microbiome's functional potential.

