kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes kegg pathway and gene ontology go analysis of the transcripts differentiallybusch et al.page 4regulated upon 2 weeks of wd demonstrated enrichment of genes involved in pathways and biological processes mainly related to immune responses and responses to external stimulus or stress figure 1a including chemokine signaling pathway leukocyte transendothelial migration cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction figure 1b and metabolic activity figure 1c consistent with other high-fat-diet models 10 11. already 2 weeks of wd resulted in the significant enrichment of genes associated strongly with mechanisms of innate immunity such as fcg-mediated phagocytosis complement system and tlr signaling pathway figure 1b.

after 1 week of wd all mice developed increased triglyceride and cholesterol levels in plasma and liver which were not different among the 3 groups figure 6c table 1. in contrast lr04-treated mice developed significantly less hepatic inflammation as demonstrated by reduced infiltration of neutrophils and macrophages compared to mice receiving pbs or isotype control antibodies figure 6d 6e table 1. remarkably the anti-mda treatment resulted in an approximately 30-40 reduction of leukocyte infiltrates figure 6e.

indeed intraperitoneal injection with maa-bsa but not bsa resulted in a robust secretion of cxcl1 and cxcl2 after 2 hours figure 5a and recruitment of neutrophils and ly-6chi inflammatory monocytes into the peritoneal cavity of maa-injected mice indicating that mda epitopes have pro- inflammatory properties in vivo figure 5b c.protection from mda epitopes results in decreased hepatic inflammationto investigate whether endogenously generated mda epitopes can cause hepatic inflammation in vivo we fed ldlr-- mice wd for 1 week during which they received two intravenous injections of 200 mg of the anti-mda igm antibody lr04 or of an isotype control antibody or pbs on day 1 and 4 figure 6a.

in addition go analysis of the significantly downregulated transcripts in livers after 2 weeks of wd revealed a strong enrichment of genes involved in the biological process oxidation reduction figure 1c suggesting the activation of oxidative stress response pathways.indeed a set of genes implicated in oxidative stress response was found to be deregulated upon wd in our global analysis figure 1e.

when comparing the intersection of differentially regulated genes between the groups we found that most genes differentially regulated in 2 week wd vs. nd comparisons were also different in 4 week wd vs. nd comparisons  400 figure s2c first vertical bar.collectively wd induces highly consistent and robust alterations of hepatic gene expression between biological replicates and time points.

lipid levels in both plasma and liver were elevated in the mice fed a wd accompanied by hepatic leukocyte infiltrates figure s1ab suppl.table 1 in line with our previous study 9. in general all transcriptome data were similar across all samples and replicates with pearson correlation coefficients in the range of 0.96 to 0.98 figure s2a.

many inflammatory genes regulated by wd primarily belonged to the protein families of chemokines and complement components indicating a predominant activation of innate immune responses in this model of diet-induced hepatic inflammation figure 1d.indeed also pattern-recognition receptors prrs such as tlr2 tlr9 clec12a and nlrp3were upregulated as well as regulators and transcription factors of the nfkb pathway a prominent signal transduction mechanism of innate immunity figure 1d.

even in absence of microbiota wd induced hyperlipidemia hepatic steatosis and inflammation in ldlr-- mice figure 2a b characterized by infiltration of neutrophils and macrophages figure 2c.

we found that a range of transcripts involved in inflammatory responses that were highly upregulated due to wd in our global analysis was also upregulated in gf ldlr-- mice upon wd figure 2d.

together we show that 2 weeks of wd are sufficient to induce global changes in hepatic gene expression which are still present and largely unchanged after 4 weeks of wd feeding with a strong enrichment for transcripts involved in innate immunity and oxidative stress response.microbiota are not required for development of hepatic steatosis and inflammationto test whether the presence of microbiota is a requirement for diet-induced hepatic inflammation in hypercholesterolemic mice we fed conventionally-raised conv-r and germ-free gf ldlr-- mice a wd for 2 weeks and analyzed their livers for the presence of inflammation.

compared to total liver cells isolated kupffer cells exhibited an even more pronounced and robust increase in cxcl1 expression and cxcl1 secretion in response to mda epitopes figure 4a figure s4a.

increased tbars were found in kupffer cells isolated from mice after 2 or 4 weeks of wd while no differences could be detected in whole liver homogenates figure 3c and s3b.

the density of mda epitopes as calculated by mean fluorescence intensity mfi was also significantly increased in liver cells of wd mice figure s3d.

moreover lr04 cells were to a large extent f480 kupffer cells and lr04f480 cells were enriched in liver cell suspensions from mice on a wd figure 3f.

a p value of  0.05 was considered significant.additional information can be found in the supplementary materials and methods section.resultswd-induced steatohepatitis activates innate immune responses in ldlr-- micewe have previously shown that feeding a short-term wd to atherosclerosis-prone ldlr-- mice that display a lipoprotein profile resembling the situation in dyslipidemic humans results in the development of hepatic steatosis and inflammation 9. to investigate factors and mechanisms contributing to diet-induced hepatic inflammation in an unbiased manner we fed ldlr-- mice a nd or a wd for 2 or 4 weeks and performed transcriptomic profiling of liver tissue using rna sequencing.

