in particular a diverse community of organisms including fungi archaea and bacteria persistently and pervasively colonizes plant tissues although fungi appear to predominate .

these fungi are primarily drawn from two major clades of fungi entomophthorales and ascomy- cota.

available online at sciencedirectmanaging the plant microbiome for biocontrol fungi examples from hypocrealesryan m kepler11 2feeding an increasing global population requires continued improvements in agricultural efficiency and productivity.meeting estimated future production levels requires the adoption of practices that increase output without environmental degradation associated with external inputs to supplement nutrition or control pests.

in this review we explore the current state of knowledge for hypocreales fungi used in biological control.

advances in understanding the field ecology diversity and genetic determinants of host range and virulence of hypocrealean fungi provide the means to improve their efficacy.addresses1 sustainable agricultural systems laboratory 10300 baltimore ave bldg 001 rm 123 beltsville md 20705 united states2 usda-ars mycology and nematology genetic diversity and biologylaboratory beltsville md 20705 united statescorresponding author kepler ryan m introductionincreases in modern agricultural output have been achieved through a combination of improved genetics for plants and animals under production and external inputs to supplement nutrition or suppress pests.

biocontrol fungifigure 1representative phylogeny of the major families of hypocreales niessliaceae not shown.have been employed to suppress populations of a number of different plant pests including insects nematodes and other fungi.

by far the richest source of biocontrol fungi has been the order hypocreales in the ascomycota.

the multiple instances of plant pathogenesis in clavicipitaceae includ- ing ergot fungi infecting cools season grasses are hypoth- esized to have evolved from ancestors infecting hemip- teran insects .sexual reproduction features the production of ascospores in an enclosed structure perithecium with a pore at the tip that may be embedded in robust fleshy tissue or produced directly from the substrate.

fungi infecting nematodes are found in most families of hypocreales.

thus far several species of trichoderma are the only species developed as biocontrol agents against fungi responsible for crop failure .

trichoderma species infect a number of plant pathogenic fungi and oomycetes.

when growing in the rhizosphere they also outcompete plant pathogens and secrete plant growth promoters .selecting for a plant microbiomewhen not infecting other hosts some hypocrealean fungi are able to interact intimately with plants in a number of ways.

details remain in understanding the extent of this ability in other metarhizium species as well as the host plant range and environmental conditions favoring such relationships.creating conditions where plants are able to take advan- tage of naturally occurring populations of biocontrol fungi could proceed along several lines.

this suggests studies need to take a broader geographic perspective to understand reproductive biol- ogy and landscape genetics of biocontrol fungi.

the last point is particularly important as genetic modifications become an increasingly attractive way to achieve improvement of biocontrol fungi .

