we found that the abundances of lps biosyn- thesis genes were widely increased in mn2-treated female mice butreduced in male animals as shown in a and b. for example bacte- rial genes involved in kdo2 and lipid a synthesis the important compo- nents of lps were increased in females only by mn2 treatment  a. moreover lps assembly related genes were largely increased in fe- male mice by mn2 exposure but were either reduced or not signifi- cantly changed in male mice b. the oxidative stress response gene cytochrome c551 peroxidase as well as multiple dna repair genes was significantly increased in female mice but decreased in male mice under mn2 exposure c.genes related to iron homeostasis were altered by mn2 exposuremn can interact with iron and perturb normal physiological process- es .

the putrescine transport gene pota was increased in mn2-exposed male mice while pota and potg were decreased in female mice c. putrescine bio- synthesis genes were also significantly changed by mn2 exposure in a sex-selective fashion as revealed by altered agmatine deiminase in fe- males and arginine decarboxylase and n-carbamoylputrescine amidase in males c.lps synthesis and dna repair genes were specifically enriched in fe- male mice by mn2 exposurelps plays an important role in the host inflammation and contrib- utes to the gut-brain interactions  .

mn abc transporter genes a and b and mn oxidation gene c were significantly increased in female mice but decreased in male mice after mn2 treatment.

for example the relative abundance of the phylum firmicutes signifi- cantly increased in mn2-exposed male mice while it decreased in mn2-treated female mice a. moreover mn2 exposure signifi- cantly reduced the phylum bacterodetes in male mice only.

for example the gene encoding tryptophan synthase beta chain was decreased and in- creased in mn2-treated female and male mice respectively a. mn2 also induced a different effect on the genes of phenylalanine syn- thesis with biosynthetic aromatic amino acid aminotransferase and prephenate dehydratase being increased and decreased in females and males b. likewise a sex-specific effect of mn2 on gabaputres- cine metabolism is evident as shown in c. for instance the gene encoding glutamate decarboxylase which synthesizes gaba from glu- tamate was significantly decreased in mn2-exposed male mice only c. as an important source of gaba the metabolism of putrescine plays a role in gaba homeostasis .

at the experimental pe- riod mice were randomly assigned into either the control group or 100 ppm mncl2 treatment group consumption of mn is  20 mgkg body weightday n  20 with 5 male mice and 5 female mice per group.

no statistically significant change.consistently decreased in male mice d. our results again high- light a sex-selective effect of mn2 on these critical bacterial functional genes.sex-selective regulation of genes of mn transportation and oxidationas an essential trace metal mn can be absorbed and utilized by many bacteria species .

for example the increase of mn transpor- tation genes in female mice may enrich mn2 in gut bacteria thus reducing its toxic effects in the host by limiting mn adsorption in host cells.

we found that quorum sensing genes were specifically increased in mn2-exposed male mice only including autoinducer 2 ai-2 kinase lsrk s-ribosylhomocysteine lyase and autoinducer-2 production pro- tein luxs a. consequently bacterial genes involved in flagellar motility and chemotaxis were largely increased in male mice b and c. interestingly multiple metal or drug resistance related genes were significantly increased in mn2-treated female mice butfig.

in particular the majority of fecal metabolites of male mice were down-regulated while numerous up- and down-regulated me- tabolites were captured for female mice a and b. for example we observed the aphla-tocopherol and gama-tocopherol were de- creased in mn2-treated male and female mice c and d with a stronger response being observed for female animals.

6. quorum sensing genes specifically increased in mn2-exposed male mice a. bacterial genes of flagellar motility b and chemotaxis c increased in mn2-exposed male mice but significantly decreased in female mice.

interestingly two manganese transporter genes manganese abc transporter sitb and sitd were specifically enriched in the gut microbiome of mn2-treated female mice while they were large- ly reduced in male mice a and b. the gene encoding multicopper oxidase that oxidizes mn2 to mn3 significantly increased in females but decreased in males c .

herein genes involved in putrescine syn- thesis and transportation were changed by mn2 treatment c. in addition two phenylalanine synthesis genes also have significantly higher abundances in mn2-treated mice than controls b. con- sistently at the metabolite level several neurotransmitters or the pre- cursors of neurotransmitter synthesis such as glycine glutamic acid and phenylalanine were perturbed by mn2 exposure .

8. mn exposure perturbed the metabolic profiles of fecal samples of female a and male mice b. antioxidants such as a-tocopherol c and g-tocopherol d were significantly decreased in the fecal samples of mn2-exposed female and male mice with a stronger effect being observed in female animals.

7. sex-selective alterations of bacterial genes of mn transportation and oxidation in mice exposed to mn2.

