w. warne et al.shifts in gut microbiomes we tested the hypotheses that microbiota differed among species and that microbiota transplants between species would pro- vide insight into the factors influencing amphibian microbiome colonization community composition and stability.methodsanimal collectionswe collected wood frog and green frog egg masses as well as bullfrog larvae as an inoculate source from local wetlands by permit from the illinois department of natural resources nh15.5778.

for experiment two we analyzed the stages separ- ately in order to compare bullfrog donors to the swapped treatment.resultsgut microbiota varies with host development and speciesdiversity of the gastrointestinal microbiota gim in larval wood frogs varied across ontogeny as indicated by pcoa of weighted unifrac data .

larval green frogs collected as eggs and sampled at stage 27 2 weeks after hatching had gut microbiota distinct from wood frogs at the same stage permanova comparison of green frogs and wood frogs at stage 27 f 8.36 r2 0.54 p  0.0001 n 8 despitesimilar lab rearing conditions and food  open circle.experiment 1 test of gut microbiota transplant in green frogsdifferences among species allowed for a test of the potential to transplant gut microbiomes.

inoculation treatment had a significant effect on green frog gut microbiota permanova of inocu- lation treatment in green frogs f 14 9.89 r2 14 0.71 p  0.0001 n 14 11. relative abundance among the most abundant phyla differed  f2 65 61.7 p  0.0001 and there was an interaction with am- phibian host species f10 65 24.7 p  0.0001. the bacterial phyla that accounted for differences were predominantly deltaproteobacteria firmicutes and planctomycetes tukey hsd p  0.05.experiment 2 test of host development on transplant colonization of gut microbiota in wood frogsin the second experiment we colonized wood frog eggs with the gut content of donor larval bullfrogs  bf collected at stage 38 .

symposiummanipulation of gut microbiota reveals shifting community structure shaped by host developmental windows in amphibian larvaerobin w. warne1 lucas kirschman and lydia zeglindepartment of zoology southern illinois university 1125 lincoln dr. carbondale il 62901-6501 usa biology department kansas state university manhattan ks usafrom the symposium with a little help from my friends microbial partners in integrative and comparative biology sicb wide presented at the annual meeting of the society for integrative and comparative biology january 4-8 2017 at new orleans louisiana.1e-mail synopsis exploration of the importance of developmental windows for microbial colonization in diverse animal taxa and tests of how these shape both animal microbiomes as well as host phenotypes promise to shed needed light on host- microbe interactions.

the aims of this study were to explore how gut microbiota diversity of larval amphibians varies among species and across ontogeny and to test if manipulation of gut colonization can reveal how microbiomes develop.

through applying a gnotobiotic protocol to eggs and cross-inoculating gut microbiomes between species we demonstrated that microbiota can be transplanted among species and developmental stages.

ufpo.rcopmerimcbissairotnisclpele-aasbestermacatil manipulation of gut microbiota and amphibian larvae787have on animal physiology but their ecological and evolutionary dynamics  .

furthermore a growing set of literature suggests the initial acquisition of microbiota during early life such as at birth can have potentially profound effects on community structure and stability across life stages  .

for example through the generation of germ-free mice and subsequent microbial inoculation from either lean or obese humans demon- strated that the structure and function of the gut microbiota influences mouse-host metabolic pheno- types.

we compared the gut microbiota of larval wood frogs lithobates rana sylvaticus green frogs l. clamitans and bullfrogs l. catesbeianus at varied developmental stages from the egg through metamorphosis to the unfed juven- ile frog stage.

second we also aimed to test if gut microbiomes can be reliably manipulated in larval amphibians in order to provide a new model system to explore gut microbiota and host interactions.

towards these ends we adapted a gnotobiotic proto- col developed for zebrafish  to first sterilize amphibian eggs and then used gut con- tent from varied species to cross-inoculate and po- tentially transplant microbiota between species.

they were then rinsed 3  with autoclaved water and housed in auto- claved mason jars 150-200 eggsjar kept in a pre- sterilized uvb chamber.the sterilized eggs were split into two treatments control or cross-species gut microbiota transplant.

in con- junction with the ontogenetic sampling of wood frogs donor wood frog larvae at gs 27 were com- pared to green frog controls and green frogs inocu- lated with wood frog guts 2 weeks after hatching at gs 27.experiment 2 aimed to test how host development influenced transplant colonization and community dynamics of gut microbiota in wood frogs here homogenized bullfrog guts were added to sterilized wood frog eggs.

