we isolated giant viruses from the soil and from water sea water oysters rivers sewage water lakes sediments hospital water supplies contact lens solutions table 2. we first describe thetable 1. number of bacterial species and subspecies isolated at urmiteabacterial species isolated from the environmentbacterial species isolated from humansonly in inert environmentonly in animalsonly environment usingco-culture amoebatotal of environmental bacteria isolated by our laboratoryco-culture amoeba from environment then humansfastidious bacteria in animalsthen and or humanshuman human gut repertoire by culturomicsmycobacterium spp fastidious and bacteria isolated byco-culture amoeba only in human samplesother species from clinical microbiology laboratorytotal human bacteria isolated by ourlaboratorynew bac- terial speciesfirst iso-lated in humans202418623182471843329nananana11269551327total202418624195162394656abbreviations na not available urmite unite de recherche sur les maladies infectieuses et tropicales emergentes.athis includes new bacterial species and subspecies isolated from the environment and from humans and bacterial species isolated for the first time from humans detailed list is available in supplementary tables 1-4existence of giant viruses associated with protozoa 11. the first isolation was performed using the shell vial assay from cooling tower samples 12. after this we modified the proto- col using microplates 11 then used a high-throughput system with amoeba monolayers on nonnutrient agar 13. our most recent developments using extended panels of protozoa asso- ciated with flow cell cytometry should increase the rate with which known and new giant viruses are isolated 14.using co-culture amoeba we isolated 22 bacterial species including 21 new bacterial species from water or air-condi- tioning samples including water from hospital networks com- prising 6 new legionella species and a new phylum babela massiliensis table 1 supplementary tables 1 and 2. although some giant viruses have been isolated with their protozoal hosts such as the cafeteria roenbergensis virus we isolated an amoeba from a human sample suspected of harboring a giant virus superinfected by a virophage 15.plantswe cultured pepper mild mottle virus pmmov by inoculat- ing 3 pepper-derived food items spicy powder pepper and tabasco on nicotiana tabacum plants as demonstrated by the development of typical symptoms on tobacco leaves and viral detection in lesions 16. in addition tobacco mosaic virus was cultured on tobacco plants inoculated with cigarette tobacco from 18 of the 34 53 samples.

seventeen distinct yeast species were identified including antifungal-resistant opportunistic pathogenic yeast species such as candida albicans candida glabrata and candida kru- sei 30.commensal microorganisms in humansbacteriathe known repertoire of human-associated bacteria is limited and includes only 2200 cultured commensal and pathogenic bacteria of which approximately 30 were first discovered in our institute 4. the dramatic increase in interest in the microbiota initially based only on metagenomic studies leds22  cid 201765 suppl 1  lagier et altable 3. isolation of virusesus to develop a new strategy known as culturomics to com- plete the human gut repertoire 31. this study began in 2010 when only 690 bacterial species had been cultivated from the human gut 32. our strategy has consisted in multiplying cul- ture conditions up to 212 different ones 31 with bacterial identification using maldi-tof enabling rapid and cost-ef- fective identification and allowing large number of colonies to be tested 33 34 figure 1. unidentified bacteria and bacte- ria previously unknown in humans were tested by 16s rrna amplification and sequencing to be identified 35 36. the bac- teria with 16srrna gene sequence similarity 98.7 were con- sidered as new bacterial species and those with 95 similarity as new bacterial genera 37 figure 1. overall culturomics has enabled us to identify 247 new bacterial species from the human gut 269 species isolated for the first time from humans and 250 species isolated for the first time from the human gut figure 2. this has more than doubled the number of species cultured from the human gut 32. we are currently performing similar culturomics studies from vaginal urine skin and res- piratory tract samples.in addition genome sequencing of the new species isolated by culturomics completed the database used for the analysis of metagenomic studies shedding light on part of the unidentified genes usually known as dark matter 32 38. as we progres- sively generated several millions of spectra the increase in the maldi-tof databases allowed us to easily and rapidly identify previously unknown bacterial species which had previously been impossible to identify using classic phenotypic identifica- tion methods figures 1 and 2. finally the influence of bac- teria in cancer immunotherapy effects 39 in the control of body weight in malnutrition 40 or in obesity could be tested using models including viable bacteria rather than only bacteria deduced by their sequence.this rapidly increasing number of new bacterial species led us to first propose a new polyphasic strategy to describe novel bacterial organisms known as taxonogenomics which com- bined phenotypic and biomolecular structural data including maldi-tof spectra and genome sequencing 37 figure 1. this approach has the advantage compared with dna-dna hybridization and chemotaxonomic methods of exhibiting great intra- and interlaboratory reproducibility.

this included 4 bacterial species isolated using co-culture amoeba bosea massiliensis bradyrhizobium massiliensis p. acanthamoeba and legionellatable 4. archaeal species cultured in our unitgroupnametype of speciesreferencepathogenicityhuman microbiota repertoire  cid 201765 suppl 1  s25table 5. fungal species isolated from human stool samples using culturomics in our unitdrancourtii associated with pneumonia 52. seroconversion for diplorickettsia massiliensis and quantitative pcr qpcr detection of arsenophonus nasoniae have suggested human infections table 1 supplementary table 2. finally 18 rick- ettsial species and subspecies detected from ticks and fleas were associated with human infections supplementary table 2. one of them r. felis is an emerging pathogen commonly detected in febrile patients in sub-saharan africa which causes an eruptive fever known as yaaf 53. in addition we described a syndrome characterized by scalp eschars and neck lymphadenopathy following tick bites known as senlat and caused by rickettsia slovaca and rickettsia raoultii or occasion- ally by bartonella henselae 54.our expertise comprehensively using the shell-vial culture assay followed by a centrifugation shell-vial technique called jnsp for je ne sais pas i don't know what i am growing also enabled the first culture of tropheryma whipplei in 2000. fifty different t. whipplei strains have now been established from diverse human fluids and tissues increasing the under- standing of t. whipplei infections and enabling us to propose evidence-based antibiotic protocols supported by in vitro observations and clinical outcomes 55. we also described the fastidious culture of other causative agents of endocarditis bartonella mayotimonensis bartonella alsatica bartonella vin- sonii subspecies arupensis and b. vinsonii subspecies berkhoffi supplementary table 3.of the 11 new mycobacterial species that we iso- lated from humans 5 are considered to be pathogenic for humans mycobacterium barassiae mycobacterium bolletii mycobacterium conceptionense mycobacterium massiliense and mycobacterium tahitimassiliense supplementary table 3. finally we reported the culture of 43 new bacterial species and 51 bacterial species first isolated from human samples and identified using both 16s rrna amplification and sequenc- ing and maldi-tof 33 36 as bacterial identification tools table 1 supplementary tables 3 and 4. for these species of bacteria only time will tell if they are commensal or pathogenic supplementary tables 3 and 4. in terms of maldi-tof identifications in routine laboratory work from 2011 to 2016 12 different species primarily isolated by culturomics were sub- sequently isolated in pathological circumstances enabling the microbiological documentation of 57 cases 32.archaealikewise a culture-based comparison of the microbiota in patients with severe periodontitis and controls yielded m. ora- lis in both groups m. smithii in 2 patients and a new species known as methanobrevibacter species strain n13 in patients with periodontitis 56 table 4. in addition we recently suc- cessfully cultured m. smithii and bacteroides thetaiotaomicron from a chronic paravertebral muscle abscess in a 41-year-old man 57.s26  cid 201765 suppl 1  lagier et alvirusesalthough the toscana virus is a recognized agent of meningi- tis encephalitis and peripheral neuroinvasive manifestations the number of complete genome sequences is strikingly low.

we conducted a first culturomics inves- tigation of a stool sample from an obese person which led to the isolation of 16 fungal species 50. of these species 8 were not previously isolated or detected in the human gut includ- ing 6 ascomycetes aspergillus flavipes penicillium brevi- compactum beauveria bassiana penicillium dipodomyicola penicillium camembertii and isaria farisona and 2 basido- mycetes climacocystis species and malassezia restricta table 5. in a second work 11 fungi were isolated from 7 fecal samples collected in 4 tropical countries 49 table 5. these comprised 2 ascomycetes species davidiella tassi- ana and davidiella species not previously described in the human gut 49. more recently we applied culturomics to 14 stool samples the analysis resulted in the identification of 38 fungal species 13 of which had never previously been foundfigure 2. principle of culturomics to exploring the human microbiota and description of taxonogenomics and new species announcement to describe new bacterial spe- cies.abbreviations maldi-tof matrix-assisted laser desorptionionization-time of flight rrna ribosomal rna.in the human gut and 2 fungal species penicillium glandicola and ascosphaera apis which had never before been isolated from clinical samples unpublished data.

for permissions e-mail doi 10.1093cidcix404maldi-tof spectra databases to know whether the microbes isolated once in humans belong or not to the human microbiome.to promote the rebirth of culture methods in microbiology 5 6 in this article we propose a comprehensive review of our laboratory's contribution of the past 30 years to increasing the repertoire of human-associated microorganisms.repertoireenvironmentnatural environmentour laboratory has isolated 20 new bacterial species from a variety of natural environments including 5 from hypersaline lakes 5 from the sea lakes and fresh water including 2 new species of planctomycetes phylum 4 new species from air sam- ples 3 new mycobacterium species from the soil 2 new species from salted food and 1 new species from permafrost table 1 supplementary table 1.a culture-based approach has been applied to characterize the fungal communities in africa and the mediterranean area in the soil 7 8 and the hospital setting 9 10.amoebathe capacity of amoeba-resistant microorganisms can be used to isolate both bacteria and viruses from the environment.

to make the new species available as quickly as possible to the international scientific community we then used the model of the genome announcement made to address the growing number of sequenced genomes 41 to create a format known as the new species announcement including brief phenotypic data 16s rrna genbank accession number and deposition number in our international collection of strains 42.archaeaour protocol for culturing methanogens yielded a previously unknown methanogen methanomassiliicoccus luminyensis 43 the largest methanogen harboring the largest genome ever isolated in humans 44 and the representative of a com- pletely new seventh order of methanogens 45. this pro- tocol also resulting in the isolation of all 6 methanogens currently cultured from the human gut microbiota including 4 new isolations methanobrevibacter millerae m. luminyensis methanobrevibacter oralis methanobrevibacter arboriphilicustable 4. in addition the 2 sole human halophilic archaea haloferax alexandrinus and haloferax massiliensis were iso- lated in our laboratory 32 table 4. we recently performed an aerobic culture of methanobrevibacter smithii and m. oralis after we designed a device to simplify the culture-based detection ofhuman microbiota repertoire  cid 201765 suppl 1  s23figure 1. urmite's contribution to increasing the human bacterial microbiota repertoire.

while the accuracy of conventional morphological identification does not exceed the species complex level the accuracy of maldi- tof ms-based identification is similar to the nucleotide sequence-based identification gold standard 68. enhanced filamentous fungi identification in the clinical laboratory based on maldi-tof-ms technology coupled with an efficient ref- erence spectrum database is improving our understanding ofthe epidemiology and clinical importance of these previously unknown fungal species 69. for example the agaricomycetes schizophyllum commune a common rotten wood saprophyte that was previously considered to be nonpathogenic for humans is now a recognized chronic fungal rhinosinusitis agent that can cause invasive forms of the disease 70.conclusionsoverall we isolated 329 new bacterial species from humans and 327 bacterial species that were previously known but isolated from humans for the first time table 1 figure 2. these 656 bacterial species correspond to an increase of 29 of the bacte- rial repertoire associated with humans figure 2. we increased the gut archaeal human-associated repertoire adding 4 differ- ent species including 2 new species table 4. our laboratory leads the way regarding the culture of giant viruses with 100 different isolates strongly suggesting their human pathogenic- ity table 2. more than 70 of the phlebovirus strains trans- mitted by phlebotomine sand flies that have been isolated in the last decade were isolated in our laboratory.

this virus was isolated on a. polyphaga from the feces of a healthy young man in senegal 31. another marseillevirus known as giant blood marseillevirus was then transiently grown by inoculating the marseillevirus dna-pos- itive serum of a blood donor on jurkat cells an immortalized line of human t-lymphocyte cells 48 table 2.eukaryotesalthough fungi represent an important part of the eukary- otic microorganisms in the human gastrointestinal tract fews24  cid 201765 suppl 1  lagier et alstudies focused on the fungal repertoire of the human gut using culture 49 50. of the 278 fungal species reported in the human gut only 75 27 were detected using culture-de- pendent methods 51 demonstrating that a great deal of work is currently needed to improve fungal isolation from human microbiota.

this is also the first time that 327 of species have been isolated from humans increasing the known human bacterial repertoire by 29. we isolated 4 archaeal species for the first time from human including 2 new species.

further work is required to develop new and well-adapted media to isolate fungi especially for basidiomycota and zygomycota and to standardize the fungal culturomics procedure as it has been applied for bacterial culturomics.pathogens in humansbacteriatwenty-five bacterial species including 23 new species and subspecies were isolated from the environment and were also considered as human pathogens.

genome announc 2014 2. piie01241-14.fournier pe raoult d drancourt m. new species announcement a new format to prompt the description of new human microbial species.

we also isolated a faustovirus from a batch of crushed culicoides species inoculated on vermamoeba vermiformis table 2.from mosquitoes new insect-specific flaviviruses were iso- lated characterized by complete genome sequencing and evolu- tionary studies 17-21. over the past decade multidisciplinary integrated projects have isolated a large number of phleboviruses transmitted by phlebotomine sand flies from the old world.

by means of example 39 years passed between the first description of rickettsia parkeri and the first human case being described in 2004 3. most of the studies performed on the human microbiota repertoire have mainly focused on bacte- rial diversity but the repertoire of the eukaryota archaea and viruses including giant viruses associated with humans has also dramatically increased in recent years 4. it remains essential to present the case reports of the newly or rarely prokaryotes isolated in humans and to increment the database allowing the identification of microorganisms 16s ribosomal rrna and matrix-assisted laser desorptionionization time-of-flightcorrespondence d. raoult aix marseille universite cnrs 7278 ird 198 inserm 1095 ap-hm urmite ihu mediterranee-infection 19-21 boulevard jean moulin 13385 marseille cedex 5 france didier.raoultgmail.com.clinical infectious diseasesr 201765s1s20-9c the author 2017. published by oxford university press for the infectious diseases society of america.

ecuador paraiso escondido virus a new flavi- virus isolated from new world sand flies in ecuador is the first representative of a novel clade in the genus flavivirus.

the lba111 virus was isolated from the bronchoalveolar fluid of a 72-year-old woman 63 and shan virus was isolated using a high-throughput culture system from the feces of a 17-year- old girl 64. this bolstered the theory of a causal link between mimiviruses and pneumonia.

