nmds based on the bray-curtis distance among all the three groups and between the normal group and moderate or severe groups.figure 4 microbial differences among the normal moderate and severe groups at the species level.

openoriginal articleinternational journal of oral science 2017 9 95-103marginal bone loss around non-submerged implants is associated with salivary microbiome during bone healingxiao-bo duan1 ting-xi wu2 yu-chen guo1 xue-dong zhou13 yi-ling lei4 xin xu13 an-chun mo14 yong-yue wang14 and quan yuan14marginal bone loss during bone healing exists around non-submerged dental implants.

twenty-two otus were shared between the severe and normal groups and 27 otus were shared between the moderate and normal groups.

this difference was more obvious between the severe and normal groups than between the moderate and normal groups.

these results indicate that the difference between the severe and normal groups was more obvious than that between moderate and normal groups.

marginal bone loss mbl around dental implants is a serious problemand extensive bone loss has long been regarded as one key factor contributing to implant failure.since the 1980s mbl assessment with intra-oral radiographs has been regarded as a critical criterion to assess implant success.

of the species associated with disease among the normal moderate and severe groupsgroupsintergroupspeciesnormal n  28moderate n  36severe n  36p valuepo0.05 red complexorange complexm moderate group n normal group s severe group s.e.m.

the accepted criteria for implant success are defined as 1-1.5 mm of bone loss during the first year after loading and o0.2 mm annually thereafter.mbl which occurs during the bone-healing period for two-stage implants exists around non-submerged dental implants and may represent a significant threat to implant longevity.

the phyla spirochaeta po0.05 and synergistetes po0.05 were highly asso- ciated with the moderate and severe groups and tm7 candidatus saccharibacteria and tenericutes were also more abundant in those two groups than in the normal group.

these data suggest a potential role of microbes in the progression of marginal bone loss during bone healing.international journal of oral science 2017 9 95-103 doi published online 16 june 2017keywords dental implant illumina sequencing marginal bone loss oral microbiome peri-implantitisintroductiondental implantation has become a principal established therapy to restore missing natural teeth in regular clinical practice.

the numbers of species unique to each community from the normal moderate and severe groups were three two and four respectively.

however no species were shared by the normal and severe groups.

influence of early cover screw exposure on crestal bone loss around implants intraindividual comparison of bone level at exposed and non- exposed implants.

we evaluated the species that are the important periodontal pathogens belonging to the red complex orange complex and yellow complex as well as the species having closely relationship with these complexes 3. we found that p. gingivalis po0.05 and treponemadenti- cola po0.05 which are important periodontal pathogens of the red complex were abundant and prevalent in the moderate and severe groups.

early implant bone loss preventable or inevitable implant dent 2012 215 379-386.oh tj yoon j misch ce et al.

