thesecurrent biology 27 r431-r510 june 5 2017 c 2017 elsevier ltd. r489the great plate- count anomalydiscovery of rhodopsin-basedidentification of sar11first marine 16s hts studyocean microbial reference geneevents19851990phototrophy20002006catalog2015three domainsisolation ofdiscovery of marine archaeafirstmarine metagenomefirst marine metatranscriptomeof life definition prochlorococcus19922004first marine20081977culture-based techniques1988cultivation-independent 16s rrna gene analysissingle amplified genome 2008high-throughput sequencingtechnology developmentsampling campaignsdna sequencing sangerpolymerase chain reaction454 sequencingillumina sequencing1980199020002010yearcurrent biologyfigure 1. key scientific and technological advances in marine microbial ecology.a selection of the main scientific events in the history of marine microbial ecology are represented through time in the upper panel.

2009. marine chemical ecology chemical signals and cues structure marine populations communities and ecosystems.

this distance-decay relationship forms the basis for marine microbial biogeography.towards global marine microbial biogeographythe idea of classifying microbes into different species and studying their distribution in the world is driven by a desire to fit microbial phenomena into the conceptual frameworks that have been developed for macroorganisms.

due to large-scale data sets that have recently become available the ocean may serve as a model ecosystem for studying microbial community structure and biogeography at global scale.from community structure to global- scale metagenomicsin 2005 the international census of marine microbes project was launched to study marine microbial diversity at global scale with standardized sampling and data-analysis procedures.

clearly marine herbivory today is shaped by human activities like never before.human hunting and fishing pressure is disrupting food webs and plant- herbivore interactions.

as a result maine's coastal ecosystem quickly flipped and locked into an alternative herbivore-free state for the past several decades.all of this illustrates how herbivores shaped shallow marine ecosystems.

2009. reduced density of the herbivorous urchin diadema antillarum inside a caribbean marine reserve linked to increased predation pressure by fishes.

2012. global patterns in the impact of marine herbivoreson benthic primary producers.

2015. marine and terrestrial herbivores display convergent chemical ecology despite 400 million years of independent evolution.

2013. sea urchins as drivers of shallow benthic marine community structure.

usa 113 13791-13796.1school of marine sciences university of maine walpole me 04469 usa.

despite our knowledge of their global importance and significant recent advances in marine microbiome research  some of the most fundamental questions still remain unansweredand serve as active drivers of current research in this field how many microbes are out there and how many different types what are they what are their functional roles how are they globally distributed how do they adapt to varying environmental conditions and how will they respond to future environmental changes this primer provides a brief overview on how these questions have been addressed in the context of developing technologies.

today we know that the discrepancy which became known as the 'great plate-count anomaly'is due to the difficulties in cultivating marine microbes in the laboratory rather than a consequence of including non-viable cells in direct counts as was believed initially.

for this reason it is important to note that microbialbiogeography needs to be considered as a function of taxonomic resolution.for illustration sar11 one of the most abundant groups in the surface oceans is divided into well- delineated marine freshwater andbrackish-water phylogenetic clades.

in contrastwithin the marine cyanobacterial genus prochlorococcus six distinct ecotypes have been identified that differ in their pigmentation maximum growth rates metal tolerances nutrient utilization and photo-physiological characteristics.consequently they exhibit different distributions along a number of environmental gradients.

