recent climate change studies often involving the use of large- volume mesocosm facilities have suggested that increased tem- perature can stimulate bacterial activity hoppe et al.

as such activity of bacterial assemblages may be sup- pressed during marine mhws which are likely to become more frequent in the future as a consequence of anthropogenic cli- mate change lima and wethey  trenberth fasullo and shepherd .the physical drivers of mhws are varied and complex hobday et al.

assum- ing a carbon content of 12 fg per bacterial cell barbosa et al.

despite evidence for very high bacterial diversity espe- cially when assemblages are sampled and sequenced in depth gibbons et al.

other studies that have considered the impact of temperature on bacterial produc- tion include hoch and kirchman  working on the delaware estuary they found that at lower temperatures 12c bacterial growth correlated well with temperature but less so at higher temperature.this study has shown that the response of bacterial assem- blages to instantaneous temperature change varied throughout the year.

in a recent study of the english channel gilbert et al.

piontek et al.

von scheibner et al.

garrabou et al.

wernberg et al.

marine heatwaves mhws which were recently defined as 'pro- longed discrete anomalously warm water events' hobday et al.

the study site was the western channel observa- tory wco station l4 in the english channel one of the best- studied marine provinces in the world with a long time-series of measurements that were initiated in the late 19th century southward et al.

warming events were detected from daily temperature time series using the definition developed by hobday et al.

temperature data were obtained over the 1982-2014 period from the national oceanic and atmospheric administration noaa optimum in- terpolation oi sst v2 high resolution gridded 0.25 x 0.25 dataset reynolds et al.

fur- ther details on the analytical approach to defining mhws can be found in hobday et al.

