in addition liver transaminase activity alanine aminotransferase alt and aspartate aminotransferase ast in serum to determine liver status as well as serum triglyc- erides total cholesterol hdl and ldl cholesterol and fasting glucose concentrations were analyzed by a routine laboratory sindelfingen germany.anthropometric data blood pressure and markers of insulin resistancebody weight height waist circumference blood pressure and homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance homa-ir were measured as detailed by maier et al.

this does not alter the authors' adherence to all plos one policies on sharing data and materials.elevated further suggesting that intestinal barrier dysfunction might be present already in the initial phases of the disease.introductionby now non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld is one of the most frequently diagnosed liver diseases worldwide not only in adults but also in children and adolescents  .

in support of the hypothesis that alterations of intestinal micro- biota composition and barrier function may be critical in the development and progression of nafld results of several animal studies using different diets to induce nafld have shown that interventions affecting intestinal microbiota composition and barrier function can pre- vent the development of nafld -.

lbp lipopolysaccharide-binding protein scd14 soluble cd14 nafld non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.concentration of proinflammatory markers in serum and plasma of controls and children with early signs of nafldboth pai-1 activity in plasma 3.3-fold p  0.05 and crp serum levels 2-foldp  0.05 were significantly higher in children with early signs of nafld than in controls.

2002 37181-6. pmid harte al da silva nf creely sj mcgee kc billyard t youssef-elabd em et al.

research articlemarkers of intestinal permeability are already altered in early stages of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease studies in childrenanika nier12 anna janina engstler12 ina barbara maier3 ina bergheim121 department of nutritional sciences molecular nutritional science university of vienna vienna austria 2 institute of nutrition sd model systems of molecular nutrition friedrich-schiller university jena jena germany 3 department of nutritional medicine 180 university of hohenheim stuttgart germany abstractopen accesscitation nier a engstler aj maier ib bergheim i 2017 markers of intestinal permeability are already altered in early stages of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease studies in children.

this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the  which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.data availability statement for ethical reasons and due to german regulations regarding data protection the authors are prohibited to make the data set publicly available as data of children are sensitive and participant privacy is a concern.please contact the department of nutritional sciences university of vienna   or prof. dr. ina bergheim   who will make the data available upon reasonable request.background  aimsrecent studies have shown that patients with manifest non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld e.g.

suggest that chil- dren with nafld have a higher risk to develop end-stage liver diseases and a higher mortality rate .

however despite intense research efforts molecular mechanism involved have not yet been clarified and accepted interventions to prevent or cure nafld in children adolescents and adults other than lifestyle modifications are not available .results of studies in adults with nafld suggested already almost 30 years ago that alter- ations of intestinal microbiota and permeability might be critical in the later stages of nafldfibrosis and cirrhosis .

to further delineate if an increased translocation of bacterial endotoxin may add to the onset of nafld we assessed markers of intestinal permeability in prepubertal children age 10 years showing early signs of nafld e.g.

levels of lbp in plasma were also significantly higher in children with early signs of nafld than in controls 1.2-fold p  0.05. in contrast con- centrations of scd14 in serum and d-lactate levels in plasma did not differ between groups see .a endotoxin and b lbp plasma concentrations as well as c scd14 serum concentrations and d d-lactate plasma levels in controls and children with early signs of nafld.

however despite only showing very early signs of nafld and in line with findings of others   prevalence of fatty liver stage 1 in children was associated with higher blood pressure beginning insulin resistance and dyslipidemia as well as increased levels of active pai-1 crp il-6 tnf a and leptin.

the latter parameter has been discussed to be indicative of intesti- nal permeability in patients with liver cirrhosis and alcoholic liver disease  .

pai- 1 plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 crp c-reactive protein il-6 interleukin-6 nafld non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

taken together our results suggest that an increased translocation of bacterial endotoxin is not only found in patients with more severe stages of nafld but might actually play an initial role in the onset of nafld.markers of intestinal barrier function are related to metabolic and inflammatory markerselevated endotoxin levels have been shown before to be associated with increased levels of active pai-1 and induced pai-1 mrna expression in liver tissue  .

