fecal extracts from hydroly- sis experiments using masked zearalenone compounds were further analyzed for zearalenone metabolites by lc-hrms see online supporting material.2.5 statistical analysistime course experiments of microbial hydrolysis of masked mycotoxins were run on fecal samples from six donors infigure 1. lack of hydrolysis of masked and free trichothecenes don3glc don niv3glc niv t2glc t2 ht2 top panel and zearalenone compounds zen14glc zen a-zel14glc a-zel 3- zel14glc 3-zel bottom panel by artificial digestive juices of the upper gut containing digestive enzymes.

here we assess the metabolism and transport of glucoside metabolites of common trichothecenes deoxynivalenol nivalenol t-2 toxin and zearalenone compounds zearalenone a- and 3-zearalenol in the human gut in vitro.methods and results masked mycotoxins were incubated with artificial digestive juices and absorption was assessed in differentiated caco-2tc7 cells.

this showed that hydrolysis of masked zear- alenone compounds was faster than trichothecenes resulting in significantly lower auc p  0.05. no clear difference was observed between different zearalenone compounds for each individual donor.figure 5. hydrolysis of masked zearalenone compounds zen14glc top panel a-zel14glc middle panel 3-zel14glc bot- tom panel and release of free parent compounds zen a-zel and 3-zel by human fecal microbiota from five donors during 0-72 h. results are presented as average of five donors - sd.

similarly we found no evidence of substantial absorption of masked zearalenone compounds zen14glc a-zel14glc and 3-zel14glc in our transport model indicating limited bioavailability of glucose- bound zearalenone compounds.

in the present study we propose zearalanol zear- alenol zearalanone zan hydrolyzed zearalenone hzen and decarboxylated hydrolyzed zearalenone dhzen aspotential metabolites using hrms and accurate mass de- tection.

research articlemasked trichothecene and zearalenone mycotoxins withstand digestion and absorption in the upper gi tract but are efficiently hydrolyzed by human gut microbiota in vitrosilvia w. gratz1 reshma dinesh1 tomoya yoshinari2 grietje holtrop3 anthony j. richardson1 gary duncan1 susan macdonald4 antony lloyd4 and jonathan tarbin41 rowett institute of nutrition and health university of aberdeen uk2 division of microbiology national institute of health sciences japan3 biomathematics and statistics scotland aberdeen uk4 fera science ltd sand hutton york ukscope cereal grains are commonly contaminated with fusarium mycotoxins and their plant- derived masked metabolites.

free trichothecenes were absorbed intact whereas free zearalenone compounds were absorbed and metabolized to undetected compounds by caco-2tc7 cells.

trichothecenes were fully recovered as parent mycotoxins whereas 40-70 of zearalenone compounds were further metabolized to unknown metabolites.conclusion our results demonstrate that masked trichothecenes will reach the colon intact to be released as parent mycotoxins by gut microbiota hence contributing to mycotoxin exposure.

masked zearalenone compounds are metabolized by gut microbiota and epithelial cells and the identity and toxicity of metabolites remain to be determined.keywordscaco-2  deoxynivalenol  glucoside  hydrolysis  nivalenol  ht-2 toxinadditional supporting information may be found in the online version of this article at the publisher's web-sitereceived august 4 2016revised november 1 2016accepted november 24 2016introductionfungal disease is a major concern facing agricultural produc- tion worldwide and contamination with toxic fungal metabo- lites or mycotoxins was found to affect 84 of agricultural commodity samples globally in a 2015 survey of over 8000correspondence silvia w. gratze-mail samples 1. fusarium fungi pose the main disease pressure in temperate climate regions of the world causing bleach- ing of the ears called fusarium head blight in all major small grain cereals.

this important fungal genus produces a range of potent fusarium mycotoxins which are highly prevalent in cereal-based food and feed raw materials 2. two major chemical groups of fusarium mycotoxins are trichothecenes sesquiterpene structures with variable side chains and zearalenone compounds phenolic resorcyclicacid lactone derivates 3. trichothecenes include the most commonly detected mycotoxins deoxynivalenol don and nivalenol niv both type b trichothecenes as well as the type a trichothecenes t-2 and ht-2 toxins t2 and ht2.

trichothecenes affect nutrient absorption and barrier func- tion in the small intestine and cause immunological distur- bances 34 and don has also been shown to affect neuronal cells 5 6. zearalenone zen and its hydroxylated deriva- tives a- and 3-zearalenol a-zel 3-zel are potent estrogenic analogs causing reproductive toxicity 3.due to their well-established toxicity maximum levels are set for don and zen in food by the european commission 7. recently european food safety authority efsa has published a group health-based guidance value for zear- alenone and its related derivatives and conjugates this is likely to result in a requirement for increased testing and possible changes to permitted limits for these compounds 8. efsa is currently reviewing the appropriateness to set group health based guidance values for t-2 and ht-2 toxin and their modified forms and nivalenol and its modified forms as well as assessing the risks for animal and public health related to the presence of deoxynivalenol metabolites of deoxynivalenol and masked deoxynivalenol in food and feed 9-11. while the outcome of these is not yet known it could be expected that the european commission may make changes to maximum permitted limits in the future.in response to fungal infection and mycotoxin produc- tion the plant uses phase i and ii detoxification pathways to prevent any adverse effects of mycotoxin toxicities.

sugar conju- gates of trichothecenes and zearalenone compounds have been identified in plant materials.

recent studies have shown that don3glc is not hydrolyzed by small intestinal enzymes in vitro 17 18 or in rats 19 and not absorbed through intestinal epithelial monolayers 20. don3glc has also been shown to be less potent than don in inducing in- testinal toxicity ex vivo 21 and cytokine storms and emetic responses in vivo 22 23. however studies using human fecal microbiota and single isolates of human gut microbes have demonstrated microbial hydrolysis of don3glc to don in vitro 17 18 24. information on other masked fusarium mycotoxins is scarce with two in vitro studies demonstrating t2glc 15 and zen14glc 18 to be stable toward digestive juices of the upper gi tract but hydrolyzed by human fecal microbiota 25.this study is the first comprehensive comparison of the major glucose conjugates of trichothecenes don3glc niv3glc t2glc and zearalenone compounds zen14glc a-zel14glc 3-zel14glc to better predict their bioavailabil- ity in the human gut.

furthermore individual differences in microbial hy- drolysis rates between different donors are explored for the masked mycotoxins.materials and methodsall mycotoxins used in the present study are summa- rized in table 1. reference analytical standards of de- oxynivalenol deoxynivalenol-3-3d-glucoside nivalenol t-2 toxin ht-2 toxin and zearalenone were purchased from romer labs ltd tulln austria.

mycotoxins detected in these con- trols were set as 100 and all other results were calculated as of control.epithelial absorption of masked mycotoxins in caco-2tc7 cellsgut epithelial absorption of masked and free trichothecenes and zearalenone compounds was studied in vitro using the human intestinal epithelial cell line caco-2 clone tc7 27. cell cultures were maintained in complete dulbecco's modified essential medium dmem lonza biowhittakerqr  belgium supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum sigma-aldrich uk and 1 penicillinstreptomycin sigma- aldrich uk under 10 co2.

