disease is thought to result from a combination of elevated pro-inflammatory cytokine release cd8 t cell- mediated cytotoxicity and reduced regulatory immune mechanisms leading to tissue damage.parasite strain dose route of infection host immune status and host geneticasymptomatic so current treatment guidelines recommend treating all seropositive patients aged 50 and under even though the standard-of-care drug benznidazole causes significant adverse effects.there is thus an urgent need for a better understanding of chagas disease pathogenesis and for the identification of markers of infection outcome.fatal cases of chagas disease often display a characteristic apical aneurysm at the bottom of the heart upon autopsy.we therefore sought to investigate the spatial relationship between parasite and host focusing on the small molecule interplay involved in parasite distribution and outcome of infection by applying untargeted liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry lcmsms analysis to sequential transverse heart sections in a mouse model of chagas disease.

parasite factors including dose route of infection and parasitestrain as well as host genotype and immune status all influence the outcome of infection with t. cruzi.- in susceptible mouse models high dose infection with strain cl is fatal withina few weeks while 50 of c3hhej mice infected with 1000 trypomastigotes survive the acute stage and develop cardiac pathology.

given that cardiac pathology develops early after infection we investigated whether we could identify early chemical signatures that were associated with fatal vs nonfatal outcomes 12 days post- infection.irrespective of infecting strain the outcome was strongly associated with cardiac parasite burden at time of sacrifice c. distinct clustering by infection outcome was observed only for the organic extract a p  0.001 adonis  so all subsequent analysis of outcome- associated metabolites focused on the organic extract exclusively.

the parasite burden was predominantly in the base top of the heart under fatal infection conditions ab whereas low dose infection with strain cl acute stage presented with a more balanced parasite distribution.

2014 8 e3010.bern c. montgomery s. p. herwaldt b. l. rassi a. jr. marin-neto j. a. dantas r. o. maguire j. h. acquatella h. morillo c. kirchhoff l. v. gilman r. h. reyes p. a. salvatella r. moore a. c. jama 2007 298 2171-2181.marin-neto j. a. cunha-neto e. maciel b. c. simoes m. v.circulation 2007 115 1109-1123.national research council us committee for the update of the guide for the care and use of laboratory animals.

a. jr. martins-pinge m. c. yamada-ogatta s. f. pinge-filho p.mediators inflammation 2014 2014 1.freire-de-lima c. g. nascimento d. o. soares m. b. p. bozza p. t. castro-faria-neto h. c. de mello f. g. dosreis g. a. lopes m. f. nature 2000 403 199-203.borges m. m. kloetzel j. k. andrade h. f. jr. tadokoro c. e. pinge-filho p. abrahamsohn i. immunol.

a multivariate response linear model accounting for the sample dependence with respect to the sampling site was performed directly on the balances using the following equation testing for the effects of parasite burden parasite dosage and sampling site along the heart and outcome.y  b0  b1xburden  b2xposition  b3xdose  b4xoutcomewhere y is the metabolite composition b0-b4 are the estimated regression coefficients xburden is the measured end point cardiac parasite burden xposition is the section position in the heart xdose is the amount of parasite injected at time 0 and xoutcome is the mouse survival outcome.data availability.

parasite burden was highest at the base of the heart acute stage and chronic cl infection overall a each bar represents a given mouse grouped by infection condition and in a representative mouse b. section positions a-d base to apex are also displayed.

these differences in position between x104 and cl infection could be due to parasite persistence at the base of the heart section a with strain cl during the transition from the acute to chronic stage whereas parasites shift away from the base of the heart to central cardiac sections during the transition from acute tofigure 2. distinct chemical signatures associated with fatal and nonfatal infection outcomes.

infection with strain x104 nonfatal showed a variable parasite distribution in the acute stage with a more uniform parasite distribution across the heart in the chronic stage.

varying the parasite dose and parasite strain allowed us to predictably modulate the infection outcome while molecular networking and principal balance analysis of this data set enabled identification of affected metabolites.

a multivariate response linear model was applied directly on the balances testing for the effects of end point cardiac parasite burden parasite dose at the time of infection heart section position and outcome.

2013 8 17-32.bouslimani a. porto c. rath c. m. wang m. guo y.gonzalez a. berg-lyon d. ackermann g. moeller christensen g. j. nakatsuji t. zhang l. borkowski a. w. meehan m. j. dorrestein k. gallo r. l. bandeira n. knight r. alexandrov t. dorrestein p. c. proc.

j. cardiol.2016 227 239.bhattacharya s. granger c. b. craig d. haynes c. bain j. stevens r. d. hauser e. r. newgard c. b. kraus w. e. newby l. k. shah s. h. atherosclerosis 2014 232 191-196.feng q. liu z. zhong s. li r. xia h. jie z. wen b. chen x. yan w. fan y. guo z. meng n. chen j. yu x. zhang z. kristiansen k. wang j. xu x. he k. li g. sci.

in contrast ifng levels were equally distributed between sections in mice infected with 1000 parasites of strain cl even though parasites were still predominantly localized to the heart base supporting ifng-independent factors regulating parasite distribution.given this targeted parasite distribution ifng-independent for mid-dose strain cl we hypothesized that there were inherent chemical differences between heart regions that could explain parasite tropism within the heart.

