in our cohort these unlabored cesarean deliveries were generally among women with a history of prior cesarean and electing for a repeat cesarean rather than a trial of labor with attempted vaginal birth after cesarean.

vaginal vs. cesarean on the infant microbiota has been subjected to scrutiny due to the increased rate of cesarean deliveries worldwide and their potential association with allergic and autoimmune disease19-22.however the clinical decision to deliver via cesarean is often indicated by the underlying maternal or fetal medical diagnoses or co-morbidities and is accompanied by varying use of medications including antibiotics and anti-inflammatory pain analgesics23.

in addition while cesarean deliveries can be classified based on whether or not the mother was in active labor prior to the cesarean surgery potentially indicating descent of the fetus into the vaginal canal or exposure to vaginal microbes the impact of labored versus unlabored cesarean on the offspring microbiota has been initially consideredbut remains underexplored and often overlooked by many studies.

moreover because differences in the neonatal microbiota have previously been shown by virtue of cesarean indication emergent vs. non-emergent27 comparisons were further stratified by whether or not the mother had labored before the cesarean procedure here on out referred to as a labored or unlabored cesarean delivery.

the indication for cesarean delivery is provided as either being primary or repeat first cesarean or repeat cesarean.

reported differences in the infantgut microbiota by virtue of the type of cesarean delivery performed emergent versus non- laboredelective suggesting that the differences associated with cesarean births may be due to the underlying medical indication rather than the surgical procedure per se27.

finally since diet is known to be a potent and persistent modifier of the microbiota in both adults and children2930 and human milk modifies the infant microbiota31-33 infant feeding practices in association with mode of delivery have been accounted for in some studies but need to bemore thoroughly evaluatedgiven the complexities of the clinical context surrounding the decision to deliver an infant via cesarean surgery we conducted a large population-based prospective cohort study of maternal-infant pairs to 1 assess the taxonomic composition and potential metabolic function of the early neonatal microbiota across multiple body sites and up to 6 weeks of age then 2 determine the impact of cesarean mode of delivery and its potentialchu et al.page 4confounders or modifiers on the neonatal and infant microbiota structure and function.

furthermore the baseline maternal characteristics were similar between mothers who delivered vaginally n105 or by cesarean n52 all p0.05 except for a greater proportion of twin pregnancies undergoing cesarean delivery student's t-test p0.008 table s3.

this bimodal pattern among vaginally born neonates was similarly seen in neonates delivered by a labored cesarean but not by an unlabored cesarean fig.

division of cesarean deliveries by indication labored vs. unlabored revealed that the differences in the neonatal microbiota at birth associated with mode of delivery was most pronounced when comparing unlabored cesarean to vaginal deliveries.

ergo prior small studies2425 which do not account for underlying indication for the cesarean surgery may be prone to both type i and type ii error resulting in misclassification of the attribution of cesarean delivery per se as a driving force in any dysbiosis in the infant microbiota.a number of perinatal and postnatal factors have been associated with relatively low neonatal and infant stool abundance of bacteroides.

even when we extend our definition of significantly variant taxa to include those identified by dominquez-bello as being perturbed in cesarean and only restored with vaginal wiping44 we failed to see significantly altered taxonomic profiles.specifically sequential definitions of low bifidobacterium or high lactobacillus were equally probable in vaginally and cesarean delivered infants fig.

this second cohort increased enrollment of cesarean deliveries thus capturing a larger number of types of cesarean indications labored vs. unlabored n26 for both table s9.

although minor variations in the neonatal immediately at birth microbiota community structure were associated with cesarean delivery in some body sites oral nares and skin r2  0.038 this was not true in neonatal stool meconium mann-whitney p0.05 and there was no observable difference in community function regardless of delivery mode.

by 6 weeks of age the infant microbiota structure and function had expanded and diversified with demonstrable body site specificity p0.001 r2  0.189 and no discernable differences in neither community structure nor function by cesarean delivery were identifiable p0.057 r2  0.007. we conclude that within the first 6 weeks of life the infant microbiota undergoes significant reorganization that is primarily driven by body site and not by mode of delivery.introductionthe human microbiome comprises a rich ecosystem of microbes that are essential to human health and physiology.

