the authors could corroborate this result by knocking down mdr1 in wild-type cells prior to the transfer ruling out that the local- ized pathogenicity was secondary to1016 immunity 47 december 19 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc.immunitypreviewsfigure 1. bile acids induce t cell-mediated inflammation in the ileum unless t cells express mdr1 in the distal part of the small intestine dendritic cells dcs induce the upregulation of mdr1 on t cells i. at this location enterocytes actively import bile acids from the lumen through the apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter asbt and release them through the organic solute transporter alphabeta hetero- dimer ostab into the interstitial space where they can interact with t cells ii increasing reactive oxygen species inside the cell and generating damaged molecules.

previous work described mdr1 as a marker for a specific effector subpopulation of cd4 interleukin-17 t cells in humans and suggested that mdr1 t cells might be involved in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease ibd  but again the function of mdr1 remained elusive.in the present publication followed mdr1 activity using a fluo- rescent substrate and a newly developed reporter mouse model.

because the majority of bile acids re-enter the body in the ileum it is conceivable that immune cells in this gut segment are exposed to particularly high concentra- tions of bile acids as compared to other parts of the intestine.between bile-acid-promoted ileal inflam- mation and the protective effect of mdr1.

they observed that mdr1 expression in murine effector t cells is compartmentalized in an unusualpattern the highest frequency of mdr1 t cells is found in a specific part of the gut the distal segment of the small intes- tine called the ileum.

mdr1 polymorphisms have been associated with ibd  and previous work suggested that levels of mdr1 in the inflamed colon of some ibd patients may be lower than in con- trols .

previous data suggested that mdr1 cells are en- riched in inflamed areas of the colon when compared to blood   indicating that reduced mdr1 levels in blood t cells might reflect recruitment of the cells into the intestine.

alternatively lower levels of mdr1 might predispose to intestinal inflammation and individuals with very low mdr1 activity might be particularly prone to develop ibd as a consequence of increased bile-acid-triggered inflam- matory signals.in summary the manuscript by adds another exciting facet to the complexity of immune-environment interaction in the intestine.

checked in vitro the effects of bile acids on mdr1 activity and on effector t cells.

they found that conjugated bile acids reduce mdr1 activity.

through their detergent property bile acids are toxic to bacterial and eukaryotic cells but toxicity was higher for t cells lacking mdr1.

importantly when tested in culture conjugated bile acids increased production of the inflam- matory mediator tnf-a in effector cd4 t cells lacking mdr1 but not in wild-type effector t cells.

bile acids are not known to directly interact with mdr1 suggesting an indirect linkalterations in t cell development in mdr1- deficient mice.treatment with antibiotics did not abolish the regional pathogenicity of mdr1-deficient t cells.

to mechanisti- cally approach the function of mdr1 in t cell homeostasis the authors focused on a class of molecules enriched in the lamina propria of the small intestine-- bile acids.bile acids are produced by the liver and eventually released into the proximal small intestine mostly conjugated totaurine or in humans also to glycine .

it also highlights the key role of bile acids and mdr1 in regulating t cell homeostasis in this compartment.acknowledgmentsthe authors thank vuk cerovic frank schaap and thomas clavel for their thoughts on this text.

however some intestinal bacteria can metabolize primary bile acids into secondary bile acids a process that may help them escape bile-acid-mediated toxicity.

