this sample showed no change in nitrite formation after addition of nitrate but nitrite levels were at 1 mm suggesting that either nitrate-reductase activity was extremely low no nitrate- dependent change in nitrite or extremely high with complete reduction of added nitrate to nitrite within time taken to mix and sample the first point.

we suggest that future studies incorporate nr activity assessments with other measures of nitrite formation no-signaling end points to evaluate these key questions.additional salient considerations regarding measuring nr ac- tivity ex vivo include observations that nitrite may be formed before addition of nitrate requiring its subtraction from nitrate- dependent increases in nitrite.

nitrite was measured by triiodide based reduction coupled with ozone chemiluminescence as previously described using a sievers 280i nitric oxide analyzer ge analytical instruments boulder co. nitrite levels were determined by comparison with standard curves measured daily detection limits were 1e10 pmol.

nitrate reductase activity was calculated by normalizing initial rates of nitrite formation with corresponding colony forming units.mouse and rat nitrate reductase activityinitial studies failed to show detectable changes in nitrite for- mation after nitrate addition to freshly collected mouse or rat tongue swabs.

1a shows that nitrate addition led to a time dependent increase in nitrite formationminimal changes in nitrite were observed with vehicle control.

1b shows the nitrate-dependent nitrite for- mation at lower initial concentrations and also demonstrates sig- nificant nitrite formation at the lowest 100 mm nitrate concentration tested.

based on experimental sensitivity to discern changes in nitrite reported levels of nitrate in the saliva and to ensure nitrate-dependent nitrite formation was in the linear range we chose 1 mm nitrate as a dose to test further.

nitrite formation was minimal at low nitrate concentrations but when above 400 mm nitrite formation was linear with nitrate.

also in some cases time depen- dent formation of nitrite appeared to be autocatalytic for both human and mouse samples which was most evident after 30min incubation resulting in increases in nitrite levels greater than the amount of nitrate added e.g.

2. this is likely due changes in bacterial metabolism and growth un- der these conditions leading to formation of nitrite independent of any nitrate-dependent nitrite formation.

rates of nitrite formation pre- and post-nitrate are deter- mined the former subtracted to calculate nitrate-dependent initial rates of nitrite formation followed by normalization to cfu.

emeasuring nitrate reductase activity from human and rodent tongueskhandaker a. ahmed  alexandria l. nichols  jaideep honavar  mark t. dransfield sadis matalon  rakesh p. patel  a department of pathology and center for free radical biology university of alabama at birmingham united states b department of medicine pulmonary allergy and critical care university of alabama at birmingham united states c anesthesiology and pulmonary injury repair center university of alabama at birmingham united statesa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 14 february 2017 received in revised form3 april 2017accepted 5 april 2017available online 5 april 2017keywords nitric oxide antiseptic chlorohexidine microbiome smoking halogena b s t r a c t reduction of salivary nitrate to nitrite by oral microbes expressing nitrate-reductase has emerged as a crucial pathway in systemic no homeostasis in humans and other mammals.

to date most studies interrogate enterosalivary nitrate reduction by following changes in saliva or plasma nitrite and no-signaling functional end points.

specifically dietary nitrate can be reduced to nitrite which in turn is reduced to no and other nitrosating species at low oxygen tensions and low ph ensuring no-homeostasis in hypoxic tissues .

there orally residing nitrate reducing bacteria concentrated on the dorsal tongue reduce nitrate to nitrite .

