the gut luminal environment including the gastrointestinal microbiota and fermentation immune system enteric nervous system and central nervous system are highly interrelated and control gut motility disturbance in any of these overlapping systems may contribute to symptoms of constipation.believed to be dysregulated or deficient colonic propulsive motor patterns 5 6 although abnormal visceral sensitivity may also be involved in some cases.patients with constipation have an increased gut transit time compared with healthy controls with the upper limit of normal considered to be 70 h 2. patients use a variety of treatments including fiber supplements laxatives and prescription medication 7. however nearly half of patients are dissatisfied with current treatments mainly because of a lack of efficacy and concerns about adverse effects 7.there has been increasing research regarding the impor- tance of the gastrointestinal microbiota to gut function and the effect of probiotics on gut motility and constipation table 1. probiotics are live microorganisms that when adminis- tered in adequate amounts confer a health benefit on the host 13. studies have shown that specific probiotics may help decrease gut transit time in people with or without consti- pation table 1. a recent systematic review and meta-analysis also showed that administration of 108 to 3 3 1010 cfud of specific probiotic species and strains decreased gut transit time by 12 h increased stool frequency by 1.5 stoolswk and im- proved some constipation-related symptoms 14. the aim of this review was to summarize existing evidence on the mechanisms through which probiotics may exert an effect on gut motility and constipation.current status of knowledgein order to understand the mechanisms through which pro- biotics exert an effect on gut motility and constipation first the physiology of gut motility and its pathophysiology in constipation must be reviewed including the role of thecentral and enteric nervous systems the gastrointestinal mi- crobiota and fermentation and immune system function.cns and ensens cns gut motility and constipation.

5-ht stimulates local enteric nervous reflexes to initiate secretion and propulsive motility and acts on vagal afferents to modulate contractile activities 20.cns control of gastrointestinal tract motility is modulated via the ans and the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis 21. both the sympathetic and parasympathetic branches of the ans regulate gut motility via influences on the circuits of the ens 22. the gastrointestinal microbiota plays a cru- cial role in the normal development of the cns 23 and seems to interact with both the cns and gut 24 through microbiota-enterochromaffin cells-vagal afferent nerve sig- naling 25. there is now increasing evidence to support the existence of the bidirectional microbiota-gut-brain axis 26 which has a key role in regulating gut motility 27.probiotics gut motility and constipation 485table 1 a selection of human studies investigating the effect of probiotics specifically on gut transit time in healthy and constipated individuals12002 8agrawal et al.

abnormal gas- trointestinal microbiota composition may cause disruption in microbiota-gut-brain axis signaling leading to changes in gut motility 23 24. alteration in gut motility can also be a result of a primary defect in cns modulation 28 al- though impaired gut motility can develop through dysfunc- tion of control mechanisms at any level from the gut to the cns 1.ens cns gut motility and constipation effects of probiotics.

colonic infusion of acids does not impact gut motility whereas infusion of a solution containing acetate propionate and butyrate while maintaining an intralumi- nal ph 6.2-6.4 reduced gut transit time 45. furthermore human in vivo studies have shown that infusion of boluses containing a blend of scfas stimulate ileal motility to a greater degree than air or saline 48 although these effects have not been consistently demonstrated 49.other products of microbiota fermentation are methane and hydrogen 50. methane is a gas produced by gastrointes- tinal microbiota and acts as a neuromuscular transmitter af- fecting gut motility 50. methane increased small intestinal transit time in a canine in vivo model whereas exposure to methane increased in vitro ileal circular muscle contractility in guinea pigs 51. conversely another ex vivo study showed that methane decreased contractility of ileal muscle whereas a hydrogen infusion increased it and decreased colonic transit time 52. the effects of microbiota-derived fermentation gases on contractility and gut motility thus remain uncertain.

the microbiota also indirectly influence gut motility via gut immune responses mediated through pattern- recognition receptors such as toll-like receptors figure 2. in mice antibiotic-induced depletion of the microbiota resulted in low-grade gut inflammation decreased gut transit time and reduced amplitude of spontaneous con- tractions 58. more specifically activation of toll-like re- ceptor 4 expression by lpss restored these effects suggesting that the presence of bacteria containing lpss such as pro- teobacteria may contribute to maintaining normal gutmotility 58.probiotics gut motility and constipation 487figure 2 interrelated factors involved in the pathophysiology of constipation as potential targets for the therapeutic role of probiotics.

2016 6625 adults with functional constipation ibs-c and mixed ibs25 healthy controls16s-based sequencinghigher abundance of bacteroidetes 7 vs.0.001 p  0.01 flavobacteriaceae 7 vs.0.001 p  0.01 and caulobacteraceae0.2 vs. 0.1 p  0.04lower odoribacteraceae 0.01 vs. 1p  0.01 and comamonadaceae 0.2 vs. 12 p  0.011 ch4 methane e. escherichia f. faecalibacterium fish fluorescent in situ hybridization h2 hydrogen ibs irritable bowel syndrome ibs-c constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome rrna ribosomal ribonucleic acid stc slow-transit constipation.attempt to investigate the mechanisms of action of meth- ane on gut motility a small study of 18 patients with ibs showed that the postprandial blood 5-ht concentration in methane-producing patients was decreased compared with hydrogen producers suggesting a possible as yet unclear in- teraction between methane and the enteric nervous function 70.altered microbiota fermentation gut motility and constipation effects of probiotics.

preliminary results show that the administra- tion of some probiotics affects the composition of some mi- crobiota and scfa production but the mechanisms of the subsequent effect on motility and constipation are not yet fully understood.other luminal factors gut motility and constipation effects of probiotics.

for example490 dimidi et al.infection of rats with nippostrongylus brasiliensis resulted in an increase in the contractile responses of the gut longi- tudinal muscle to agonists 96. this increased muscular contractile activity was diminished by suppressing the in- flammatory response with the use of a corticosteroid 97. a study in mice infected with trichinella spiralis showed an increased expression of the cytokine receptors il-4ra and tgf-b1 which mediate the effect of il-4 or il-13 and of tgf-1 respectively and a subsequent upregulation of cyclooxygenase-2 cox-2 and pge2 at the level of the smooth muscle cell indicating that cytokines and their up- regulation of cox-2 and pge2 are involved in the increased contractility 98. furthermore a strong correlation between the activation of mast cells via the immune response and the development of gut dysmotility in t. spiralis rats has been shown 99. in rats intestinal mast cells have been shown to modify ner- vous reflexes and to modulate endocrine responses induced by intraluminal stimulus 100. it has also been suggested that the altered motility caused by inflammation may result from changes in the afferent nerve input into intrinsic and extrinsic neural circuits as well as by imbalance of the ans 95. intesti- nal inflammation has been suggested to be linked to neurological changes 101. indeed in rectal biopsies from patients with slow- transit constipation decreased levels of the excretory substance p of the ens of mucosa and submucosa have been found 102. a microscopy study using surgically resected jejunal ilealor colonic specimens from patients with crohn's disease showed that inflammation can result in morphological and functional changes in enteric nerves even at noninflamed sites 103 suggesting that inflammation at one site of the gut may possibly alter gut motility at another noninflamed site.there are limited studies of immune system manifesta- tions of constipation.

one study revealed a disturbance in intestinal permeability as measured by ovalbumin serum concentration whereas normalization of stool frequency with the use of bisacodyl a stimulant laxative that increases water absorption and gut motility resulted in restitution of normal intestinal permeability 61. the same study pro- vided evidence of immune activation in functional constipa- tion with increased cd3 cd4 cd8 and cd25 t cells as well as proliferation of lymphocytes indicating the activa- tion of t cell immunity 61.immune system gut motility and constipation effect of probioticsit has been shown that some probiotics such as l. rhamnosus gg can modulate the mucosal immune barrier andor sys- temic immune barrier and normalize inflammation-related dysmotility in a small number of studies albeit not specifi- cally in constipation 104 105. for example l. paracasei has been shown to produce antagonistic metabolites such as glutathionine to stimulate immune cells in vitro 106 whereas saccharomyces boulardii can improve gut epithelial cell restitution 107. furthermore subjects who consumedb.

although there is no clear consensus to date on using pro- biotics for symptoms of constipation a recent survey of 1830 health professionals in primary care showed that 18 recommend probiotics to patients with constipation showing that clinicians have started incorporating probi- otics as a management option in clinical practice 109.conclusionthe gut luminal environment immune system ens and cns are highly interrelated and control gut motility distur- bance in any of these overlapping systems may contribute to symptoms of constipation.

sensitivity of the gastrointestinal tract which refers both to conscious perception of gut stimuli and to af- ferent input within gastrointestinal sensory pathways is inextricably linked and hence gut motility can be the con- sequence of interrelated sensory motor functions.gut transit is the functional consequence of tonic and phasic gut contractions and refers to the time taken for in- traluminal contents to traverse the gastrointestinal tract 1. despite a wide variation between individuals normal whole-gut transit time is considered to be 30-40 h 2.1 the authors reported no funding received for this study.2 author disclosures e dimidi and s christodoulides are undertaking fellowships funded by nestec ltd. sm scott has received research funding from nestec ltd. and the californianseveral factors regulate gut motility figure 1. afferent and efferent neural control is provided through interaction of the gut with the central nervous system cns5 via so- matic or autonomic autonomic nervous system ans neurons and communication between different parts of the gut is achieved by the transmission of myogenic and neurogenic signals along the gut via the enteric nervous sys- tem ens and by reflex arcs through autonomic neurons 3. the hierarchy of neural control of gut motility is as fol- lows the primary regulator is ens followed by ans and then cns.

several factors are vital to normal gut motility including immune and nervous system function bile acid metabolism and mucus secretion and the gastrointestinal microbiota and fermentation an imbalance or dysfunction in any of these components may contribute to aberrant gut motility and consequently symptoms of constipation.

there is limited evidence supporting any im- pact of probiotics on these factors.immune systemimmune system gut motility and constipation evidence exists regarding a causal relation between gut mu- cosal inflammation and altered sensory and motor functions 95. the effect of enteropathogenic infection on the intes- tinal mucosal immune system and the increased gut motility and induction of diarrhea is well described.

probiotics may have beneficial effects regarding some components of the immune system that could poten- tially influence gut motility but the effect regarding consti- pation has not been investigated.clinical implication of probiotics in constipationto this point animal studies have suggested that various probiotic species and strains may have beneficial effects on gut motility and constipation however there are still limited data for human studies and hence it is difficult to extrapolate which probiotic strain is likely the most clinically efficacious.

bile acids act as physiological laxatives altering luminal elec- trolyte and water transport 80 81. several decades ago ad- ministration of deoxycholic acid in the rabbit colon was shown to increase circular smooth muscle contractile activ- ity 81. in vitro studies have shown that bile acids influ- ence gut motility via the ens 82 as well as through endocrine and paracrine mechanisms 83 they appear to activate tgr5 a g protein-coupled receptor expressed byenterochromaffin cells and myenteric neurons and release 5-ht and calcitonin gene-related peptide 84 figure 2. with regard to bile acid metabolism reduced synthesis andor concentrations of specific bile acids have been shown in patients with constipation 85 and administration of chenodeoxycholic acid or ileal bile acid- transporter inhibitors decrease gut transit time compared with placebo and improve constipation symptoms 86. notably bile acid metabolism and the gastrointestinal microbiota have been shown to interact because the gastrointestinal microbiota regulates hepatic bile acid synthesis and promotes deconjugation dehydrogenation and dihydroxylation of primary bile acids increasing the chemical diversity of bile acids 87 88.the enterocytes of the gut are lined with a surface mucus gel that serves as a lubricant to protect the mucosa 89 but that also facilitates the passage of stools.

