This hypothesis was later confirmed as it was shown that E. coli STa has an inhibitory effect on colonic cancer cell proliferation through the PKG- ERK4244-mediated pathway .Other cancer types and common anticancer activitiesApart from colorectal cancer other cancer types are inversely affected by microbiota or microbiota-derived prod- ucts.

H. pylori-induced angiogenesis can be efficiently blocked with proton pump inhibitor PPI treatment through blockade of the MAPK signaling pathway .The inflammatory chemokine IL-8CXCL8 a potent angiogenesis inducer   is shown to be upregulated in gastric cancer and its presence strongly correlates with adhesion migration and invasion of gastric cancer cells   also verified by IL-8 overexpression and knockdown experiments using gastric cancer cells .

.Like in other cancer types the metastatic potential and the disease recurrence incidence of gastric cancer are angi- ogenesis dependent and especially in intestinal-type gas- tric cancers correlate with VEGF expression  .

pylori-derived heat shock protein 60 HpHSP60 has beenshown to directly enhance cell migration and tube formation but not cell proliferation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells HUVECs highlighting the cell-specific complexity of signaling pathways involved in bacteria-promoted angio- genesis in gastric cancer .Another angiogenesis-related inflammatory marker which has been substantially studied for H. pylori infection and the related gastric cancer is cyclooxygenase-2 COX-2.

VEGF alone is the primary prognostic factor for gastric cancer recurrence or disease-specific survival  and VEGF expression along with other angiogenesis-related genes is directly regulated by COX-2 in gastric cancer cell lines .

By regulating MMP expression COX-2 can affect metastatic dissemination of cancer cells as MMPs degrade ECM components of the local microenvironment  .Colorectal cancer CRCCarcinogenesis is the outcome of a combination of cell- intrinsic with cell-extrinsic factors.

Moreover mucosal microbiota are a deter- mining factor for colorectal cancer formation and colorec- tal cancer incidence is significantly higher in individuals with microbial biofilms than in those without although no particular microorganism has been associated with the tumors .

At the same time abnormal alterations of the gut bacterial community have been associated with several types of diseases such as cancer obesity allergy inflam- matory bowel disease and diabetes  .

It was shown for example that certain quorum-sensing peptides produced by E. coli B. subtilis and S. mitis promote breast cancer cell invasion and angiogenesis in vitro potentially affecting the metastatic process .

The most com- mon one Helicobacter pylori grows in the mucosal layer coating the stomach and causes a variety of gastric diseases including gastritis gastroduodenal ulcer and gastric cancer .

