these observations in- dicated a segregated distribution of piezo1 in both g cell types and suggested a localization of the channel protein close to the hormone-release sites.quantification of piezo1-expressing g cellsto determine the proportion of g cells that indeed express piezo1 the number of egfp-labeled cells of piezo1-reactive cells and of cells positive for both egfp and piezo1 was determined on tissue sections as depicted exemplarily in fig.

however since piezo channels appear in addition to mechanosensitivity to be implicated in a variety of other functions see alper  other effects of piezo1 in g cells cannot be ruled out.the finding that in the spindle-like g cells which extend long processes parallel along the vertical invaginations piezo1 is located primarily in the cell bodies but not in the processes is of particular interest as the hormone gastrin also appears to be concentrated within the cell bodies fig.. thus both gastrin and mechanosensitive piezo1 protein also seem to be segregated in a distinct compartment of this unique cell type.

in the spindle-like g cells which are oriented parallel to the invaginations piezo1 protein was restricted to the cell body where the hormone was also located whereas the long processes appeared to be devoid of piezo1 protein.

pcr amplifications were per- formed with the following primer combination piezo1 for- ward 5'- act ttg ccc tgt ccg cct a-3' piezo1 re- verse 5'-gaa gaa gcc ccg cac aaa c-3'.

for the blocking experiments specific piezo1 immunizing peptide ab133015 abcam was added to the piezo1 antibody.

in order to explore whether the piezo1 ion channel protein was indeed present in antrum mucosa cells specific antibodies for piezo1 were employed in immunohistochemical approaches.

d.expression of piezo1 in g cellsgiven that the base of antral invaginations harbors several types of enteroendocrine cells we hypothesized that some of these enteroendocrine cells expressed piezo1.

b whereas piezo1 antisense probes generated strong signals in the basal region of the antrum no signals were obtained when piezo1 sense probes were used c. bars 200 mm a 100 mm b cfig.

c. these results indicated that piezo1 was expressed in gastrin-secreting g cells.with a view of unraveling the possible function of piezo1 ion channels in g cells we considered it to be of great interest toexplore the exact location of the mechanosensory protein in these hormone-secreting cells.

cell and tissue research 2018 371251-260 httpsdoi.org10.1007s00441-017-2755-0mechanosensitive ion channel piezo1 is expressed in antral g cells of murine stomachkerstin lang1  heinz breer1  claudia frick 12received 6 october 2017  accepted 22 november 2017  published online 20 december 2017 the authors 2017. this article is an open access publicationabstractg cells in the antrum region of the murine stomach produce gastrin the central hormone for controlling gastric activities.

therefore we explore the possibility of whether piezo1 a polymodal sensor for diverse mechanical forces is expressed in antral g cells.

the experimental analyses revealed that the vast majority of g cells indeed expressed piezo1.

within flask-like g cells at the base of the antral invaginations the piezo1 protein was primarily located at the basolateral portion which is thought to be the release site for the exocytic secretion of gastrin.

our results suggest that mechanosensitive channels such as piezo1 located in close proximity to hormone-release sites enable g cells to respond directly to antrum distensions with gastrin secretion.keywords antrum mucosa .

piezo1 channel .

