therein gut microbiota could change the pharmacokinetic properties of saponins to reverse their poor bioavailability 0731-7085c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.however pertinent investigations on the comprehensive metabolic profile of pns have not been done due to chemical complexity as well as individual gut microbial specificity and enzyme diversity we cannot ignore that the need to investigate the biotrans- formation mediated by human gut microbiota for potential drug development.in addition to the genetic impacts and prenatal maternal micro- bial colonization environmental factors appear to be essential in the remodeling of gut microbiota among them long-term dietary pattern is the most important factor for the modification of gut microbiota changing regular dietary patterns such as switching from a high-fat and high-protein hf-hp diet to a low-fat and plant fiber-rich lf-pf diet reshapes the community structure of gut microbiota in order to adapt the nutrient changes in host obviously these diet-driven microbiota alterations could vary the enzyme activities that themselves influence drug metabolism and bioavailability in this paper a highly sensitive and selective high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with diode array detec- tionquadrupole tandem time-of-flight mass spectrometry hplc-dad-q-tof-msms was developed to identify the metab- olized saponins.

these metabolites are potential bioactive substances.recently more and more studies have been focusing on the bio- transformation of xenobiotics and the pharmaceutical metabolism mediated by gut microbiota gut microbiota are able to hydrolyze poorly absorbed saponins that may generate potential health benefits moreover the human body does not secrete enzymes that hydrolyze glycosidic linkage in the gastrointesti- nal tract obviously orally administered pns are inevitably influenced by gut microbiota which not only alter the chemical structures of saponins but also modify their pharmacological activ- ities.

stocks were generated by adding glycerol to the gut microbiota suspension final concentration of glycerol 20 and were anaerobically stored in -80 c freezer biotransformation of pns by gut microbiotagut microbiota stock was fast thawed in a water bath at 37 c and cultured with 10-fold volume of gam broth in an anaerobic incubator at 37 c. after incubation for 24 h the gut microbiota suspension was centrifuged at 3320 g for 20 min at 4 c to decant the gam broth containing glycerol.

the gut microbiota may play a significant role in mediating the bioactivities of pns.c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.introductionsaponins such as notoginsenosides and ginsenosides are responsible for the clinical applications of panax notoginseng which is a famous and traditional chinese medicine that has been used throughout history p. notoginseng saponins pns show various in vitro and in vivo pharmaceutical effects includingabbreviations acn acetonitrile dad diode array-detector dmso dimethyl sulphoxide esi electrospray ionization gam general anaerobic medium gf1 gin- senoside f1 gc-k ginsenoside compound k grh2 ginsenoside rh2 hf-hp high-fat and high-protein hplc-dad-q-tof-msms high-performance liquid chromatog- raphy coupled with diode array detectionquadrupole tandem time-of-flight mass spectrometry lf-pf low-fat and plant fiber-rich lle liquid-liquid extraction ppdprotopanaxadiol ppt protopanaxatriol pns panax notoginseng saponins rsds relative standard deviations sem standard deviation of mean tics total ion chro- matograms.

the results showed that the most abundant metabolites ginsenoside f1 protopanaxatriol ppt ginsenoside rh2 ginsenoside compound k gck and protopanaxadiol ppd were reported to possess stronger related pharmacological activities when compared with parent ginsenosides.

forty-five metabolites were separated and tentatively identified from the pns metabolic profiles including the major compounds ginsenoside f1 protopanaxatriol ppt ginsenoside rh2 ginsenoside compound k gck and protopanaxa- diol ppd.

forty-five metabolites were found and identi- fied including considerable amounts of deglycosylated metabolites of ginsenoside f1 ginsenoside rh2 ginsenoside compound k protopanaxadiol and protopanaxatriol.

thenall the filtrates were concentrated under vacuum at 50 c to yield concentrated residue which was further dried by vacuum-drier at 60 c. at last the dried extract was stored at 20 c for further study.gut microbiota preparation1 g of fresh fecal sample which was collected from a healthy male subject no smoking and alcohol no current medication no use of antibiotics among three months was suspended well in 20 ml of cold physiological saline and then centrifuged at 500 x g for 5 min at 4 c. the resultant fecal supernatant was decanted and centrifuged at 3320 g for 30 min at 4 c then the precipitate was re-suspended with 2.5 ml of leibovitz's l-15 medium to pro- duce gut microbiota suspension.

the biotransformation of p. notoginseng extract by human gut microbiota was performed in 1 ml incubation system contain- ing 100 ul of gut microbiota work solution 5 ul of p. notoginseng extract stock solution in dimethyl sulphoxide dmso final con- centration of p. notoginseng extract 0.984 mgml and 900 ul of leibovitz's l-15 medium.

due to the complexity of the metabolites of the p. notoginseng extract more structural infor- mation should be provided to confirm the compounds definitely especially for those metabolites that lack reference standards.metabolites of pns in different diet groupto investigate how the biotransformation of pns was mediated by gut microbiota in different diet groups gut microbiota sam- ples were collected from lf-pf n  3 and hf-hp n  3 healthy male subjects.

the results showed significant differences on pns metabolism in vitro between the two dietary-induced human gut microbiota groups.materials and methodschemicals and reagentsginsenosides including ginsenoside rb1 rb3 rg1 20s-rg2 20s-rg3 20r-rg3 20s-rh1 20r-rh1 20s-rh2 20r-rh2rc rd re f1 f2 20s-protopanaxadiol with purity  98 were purchased from baoji herbest bio-tech co. ltd shannxi china notoginsenoside r1 with purity  98 was purchased from chengdu push bio-technology co. ltd chengdu china.

therefore the peak areas of ginsenoside f1 and dh-ppt showed significant differences between the lf-pf and hf-hp diet group e. the gut microbiota-mediated individual differ- ences maybe interpret the appearance of the therapeutic diversity of traditional chinese medicine in clinical application even when treatment is being done with the same dosage therefore the individual human gut microbiota may play a critical role in medi- ating the clinical application of oral traditional chinese medicine.proposed metabolic pathways of pnsthe biotransformed metabolites indicated that deglycosylation reaction was the main metabolic pathway.

fifteen saponins including noto- ginsenoside r1 ginsenoside rg1 re rb1 rc rb3 rd rh2 f1 f2 20r-ginsenoside rh1 20r-ginsenoside rg3 20s-ginsenoside rg2 20s-ginsenoside rh1 and 20s-ginsenoside rg3 were definitively identified by comparing the chromatographic reten- tion time tr and ms spectra with the reference standards.

2. the typical total ion chromatograms tics of mixed standards in the positive a1negative a2 ion mode determined by hplc-dad-q-tof-msms the typical positive and negative msms spectra of notoginsenoside r1 b1 and b2 and ginsenoside rg1 b3 and b4 the fragmentation pathways of ginsenoside rg1 in the negative msms c.fig.

the product ions were detected at mz 459.3819 m-h-glc- and 161.0457 glc- h-h2o-indicating that m35 was a ppd-type ginsenoside and had a glucosyl group which could be confirmed as ginsenoside com- pound k. m36 had an accurate m h- ion at mz 765.4950 and major fragment at mz 603.5032 which implied that it could be con- nected with a terminal glucose monomer.

