this applies to both patients younger and the older population since current guidelines recommend average risk screening for only patients age 50 to 75.from a therapeutic perspective there is interest in targeting these metabolic alterations with agents such as metformin as a promising chemopreventive strategy.in summary the report that metabolic reprogramming may be an early event in colon carcinogenesis opens vistas of cancer screening and prevention.

our group has recently extended these findings to the premalignant colonic mucosa supporting the role of early metabolic reprogramming to a warburg-like physiology as one of the initiating factors in colon carcinogenesis 2.one critical unanswered question is what are the biological drivers of metabolic alterations in early colon carcinogenesis an emerging candidate is the gut microbiome which is increasingly recognized as a regulator of both host metabolism and immune response 3. intriguingly dysregulation of the gut microbiome has been linked to a variety of human diseases from malignancies e.g.

indeed the interactions of diet genetic substrate have been shown to contribute to all aspects of malignant and metabolicdiseases.specificallytheinteractions between diet and microbiome have been shown to mediate diabetes and obesity along with cancer risk 6. we posit that the link between the microbiome and disease risk especially crc may be mediated via altered colonic mucosal metabolism.

there is strong data that obesity diabetes can foster mucosal metabolic abnormalities in glycolytic and lipogenic pathways altered ampk and sirtuin function.given the incontrovertible evidence that diabetes and obesity are significant crc risk factors this may provide a mechanism for the dramatically rising crc rates in young patients.

from a public health perspective the link between metabolism and crc risk may provide insights into the observation that the increase crc rate is markedly increasing in younger age  50 patients in contradistinction to the overall population trends.

moreover these findings may represent a biological underpinning between the microbiome and crc and provide a putative mechanism through which diabetesobesity may increase risk of colon carcinogenesis.referenceshanahan d weinberg ra.

from a clinical perspective detecting metabolic changes is of paramount importance for risk stratification especially for patients who fall outside the general screening range.

editorialmetabolism microbiome and colorectal cancersomenath datta sanjib chowdhury hemant k. royalterations in metabolism is one of the newly discovered molecular hallmarks of cancer 1. the preferential utilization of glycolysis over oxidative phosphorylation warburg effect even in normoxic condition is a common theme in many malignancies including colorectal cancer crc.

this is particularly apropos since the number of stem cell divisions is intimately associated with crc risk thus providing a link between cancer prevalence and aging7.

for colon carcinogenesis population dynamics microbial dysbiosis with decreasing the population of good microbes e.g.

the scfas specifically butyrate have been shown to reduce cellular proliferation and induce apoptosis in both tumor cells and colonic mucosa of neoplasia harboring patients field carcinogenesis 5. reports show that diets with high fiber and carbohydrates canfacilitate the growth of good microbes that produce butyrate.

it has been reported that scfas regulate the energy metabolism of host cells by activating amp- activated protein kinase ampk pathway which subsequently triggers lipid and glucose metabolism along with mitigating carcinogenesis.while progress in the field has been rapid there are many unanswered questions related to the complexity of the microbiome-host interactions.

for instance the host genetic makeup interacts with the microbiome in a manner consonant with the well-established genetic- environmental interactions that is characteristic of colon carcinogenesis.

crc along with metabolic diseases including diabetes and obesity.

2011 144646-74. doi 10.1016j.cell.2011.02.013cruz md et al.

