in sum ethanol catabolism is necessary for drosophila to discriminate between the co-culture and the separate-culture mixture.we next identified additional metabolites unique to the co-culture using solid-phase microextrac- tion gas chromatography-mass spectrometry spme gc-ms. acetic acid six acetate esters an acet- aldehyde metabolic derivative acetoin a putative acetaldehyde metabolic derivative 245- trimethyl-13-dioxolane and two unknown metabolites were more abundant in the co-culture rela- tive to the separate-culture mixture or co-culture with a. pomorum adha  table 2--source data 1-6. to determine the molecular basis for drosophila co-culture preference select metabolites were added to the co-culture containing a. pomorum adha.

for each panel the left-most plot compares the co-culture containing s. cerevi- siae and a. malorum to s. cerevisiae grown alone a. malorum grown alone or media ajm apple juice medium the right-most plot compares the co-culture containing s. cerevisiae and a. pomorum wild-type to the co-culture containing s. cerevisiae and a. pomorum adha since a. pomorum adha is required for drosophila co-culture preference figure 5a.

esters and acetic acid but not esters alone were sufficient to fully restore the attractiveness of the co-culture containing a. pomorum adha to the co-culture containing a. pomorum wt levels .although acetate and its metabolic derivatives were sufficient for drosophila co-culture prefer-ence acetaldehyde is a reactive intermediate during ethanol catabolism whose metabolic derivatives might be increased in microbial communities compared with individual microbial cultures.

acetobacter metabolism of saccharomyces-derived ethanol was necessary and acetate and its metabolic derivatives were sufficient for co-culture preference.preference correlated with three emergent co-culture properties ethanol catabolism a distinct volatile profile and yeast population decline.

an independent homo- zygous mutant of orco also showed reduced attraction to the co-culture whereas the hetero- zygotes orco and or42 were attracted to the co-culture similarly to wild-type flies .orco is a required co-receptor for all other or gene products  and or42b one of the most conserved olfactory receptors detects esters and 11-diethoxyethane   .

previous work found that orco is fully responsi- ble for the drosophila attraction to apple cider vinegar  sug- gesting that the behavioral circuit activated by inter-species interactions between s. cerevisiae and a. malorum is distinct from the circuit acti- vated by apple cider vinegar.we speculated that the emergent property of co-culture attractiveness might arise from a dis- tinct metabolic profile of the co-culture.

five co-culture vol- atiles ethanol isobutanol isoamyl alcohol ace- tic acid isoamyl acetate were confirmed with standards table 1--source data 1 and 2 and quantified with standard curves table 1-- source data 3 and 4. the alcohol concentra- tions were lower and acetic acid and isoamyl acetate were unique in the co-culture relative to the other experimental groups .

to test directly whether ethanol catabolism underpinned drosophila co-culture preference we evalu- ated drosophila preference for the co-culture harboring a mutant in adha which encodesfigure 2. drosophila temporal preference for metabolite exchange.

each data point represents the ph of a co-culture and the mean riof drosophila toward the same co-culture.

a the mean rank of the response index of the various drosophila mutants toward the co-culture was compared with the mean rank of wild-type fly behavior toward the co-culture using the kruskal-wallis test followed by dunn's post-hoc multiple comparisons testing.

moreover dro- sophila preferred the co-culture containing a. pomorum wt to the co-culture containing a. pomorum adha .

consistent with this idea acetoin was moderately increased in the co-culture compared with the separate-cul- ture mixture table 2--source data 1 strikingly acetoin was increased 27 fold in the tri-culture s. cerevisiae a. malorum and l. plantarum compared to the co-culture   and was attractive to drosophila .

three acetaldehyde metabolic derivatives--acetoin 11-diethoxyethane an acetal and 23- butanedione--were sufficient to induce the attractiveness of the separate-culture mixture to levels equivalent to the co-culture containing a. pomorum wt using concentrations of each metabolite at or below the physiological concentration of acetoin found in the tri-culture  .table 1. summary of volatiles detected using gc-ms. relative abundance of volatiles in the co-culture s. cerevisiae and a. malorum grown together compared to the separate-culture mixture s. cerevisiae and a. malorum grown separately and their quantities added in during analysis.

in sum drosophila preference provides benefits associated with consumption of microbial community-generated metabolites.next we explored the relationship between drosophila attraction and egg-laying preference.drosophila preferred to lay eggs in the co-culture containing a. pomorum wt to the co-culture con- taining a. pomorum adha .

in contrast we found that larvae develop more slowly when consuming the co-culture containing a. pomorum wt compared with the co-culture containing a. pomomrum adha .

