these data confirmed that lm-a treatment drastically altered specif- ic gut bacteria changed the initial balance of gut microbiota and may further influence the systemic metabolism of mice.uniformed metabolic adaptation to lm-a administrationto illustrate similarity and clustering between different sam- ples in the same group we performed the hierarchical cluster- ing analysis.

this suggests that lm-a administration significant- ly changed the metabolic status of mice in lm group which exhibited a uniform metabolic adaption.changes in the mouse gut microbiota composition induced by lm-a correlated with host parametersto further explore whether one specific bacterial taxa was correlated with host metabolism we performed a multifacto- rial correlation analysis and a univariate correlation map fig.

f results confirmed that banding patterns were closely related to the groups and lm-a administration caused drastic but regular and homogeneous changes in the gut microbial community structure of mice.lm-a administration drastically altered specific mouse gut bacteriathe effect of lm-a administration on selected mouse fecal microbiota was furthered evaluated by q-pcr.

meanwhile lm-a treatment also drastically altered the spe- cific gut bacteria and the initial balance of gut microbiota.

in our study lm-a significantly reduced muc2 and occludin in the colon but not in ileum of mice the influence of lm-a on zo-1 was not obvious fig.

pcr-dgge was performed to evaluate the effect of lm-a in- take on the gut microbial community structure fig.

the significant changes in firmicutes fir and firmicutesbacteroidetes fb further confirmed that lm-a administration caused a drastic shift in mouse gut microbial community structure fig.

meanwhile we found that lm-a administration caused drastic but regular and homogeneous changes in gut microbial community structure fig.

we speculated that indigestible proteins and dietary fibers in large intestine or potentially toxic phytochemicals and overdose of essential elements produce the gut microbiota-associated adverse effects in this study.in conclusion a moderate dose of an lm-a-supplemented diet for mice in the lm group led to uniform metabolic adap- tion including an enhanced inflammatory response compro- mised gut barrier function and broken intestinal homeostasis.

g. compared to the ncd group mice gavage with lm-a had significantly higher levels of bacterial lps in serum fig.

after 8-week feeding with normal chow diet the body weight of mice entered a stable period and one of the group received daily doses of 750-mgkg body weight lm-a by ga- vage for 4 weeks assigned as lm the other group received the vehicle assigned as ncd.

after 8 weeks feeding with nor- mal chow diet 10.8 fat 68.7 carbohydrates and 20.5 protein kcal100 g the body weight of mice entered a stable period and one of the group received daily doses of 750- mgkg body weight lm-a by gavage for 4 weeks assigned as lm the other group received the vehicle assigned as ncd.

after 8 weeks of feeding with a normal chow diet the body weight of mice entered a stable period members of one group received daily doses of 750 mgkg body weight lm-a by gavage assigned as lm whereas the other group received the vehicle assigned as ncd.

among the bacterial groups of proteobacteria the abundance of gram-negative bacteria eco des sw and bw in mice were all reduced by lm-a treatment to various extents and only the abundance of su increased significantly in the lm group compared with the ncd group.

however the liverweight to body weight ratio was significantly enhanced in lm group compared with the ncd group fig.

