we did not observe differential degradation of trp by intestinal microbes suggesting similar bioavailability of trp possibly be- cause intake of trp from medical foods unlike tyr is not excessive com- pared to a typical diet.dietary intake of tyr and trp from aa-mf although significantly higher compared with gmp-mf was associated with similar perfor- mance on standardized neuropsychological tests emphasizingfig.

mean scaled plasma tyr levels and mean - se dietary tyr intake determined from food records are shown n  9. plasma tyr and urine vanillylmandelate are not significantly different p n 0.05. compounds within dashed lines are synthesized by intestinal microbes.with aa-mf whereas subjects with classical pku showed no effect of mf treatment on plasma serotonin.plasma levels of kynurenine were significantly higher with aa-mf compared with gmp-mf p  0.027 reflecting diversion of trp from serotonin synthesis.

mutation names are defined at and .b the range of fasting plasma concentrations of phe tyr and trp reflect three determi-nations over a period of 8 weeks while subjects were following their usual diet with amino acid medical food.table 2intake of amino acids in subjects with pku consuming a low-phe diet in combination with aa-mf and gmp-mf.medical foods gdaynatural foods gdaywhole diet gdayvalues are mean - sem based on 3-d food record n  18. large neural amino acids lnaa include tyr trp leu ile val his met and thr.

metabolomics analysis identified higher levels of microbiome-derived compounds synthesized from tyr such as phenol sulfate and higher levels of compounds synthesized from trp in the kynurenine pathway such as quinolinic acid with ingestion of aa-mf compared with gmp-mf.conclusions the tyr from aa-mf is less bioavailable due in part to greater degradation by intestinal microbes compared with the tyr from prebiotic gmp-mf.

moreover genes for metabolism of amino acids espe- cially tyr and trp are overrepresented in bacteria comprising the microbiome in the distal gut .in our recent randomized controlled crossover trial we observed a disparity between intake and plasma concentrations of tyr and trp .

despite significantly higher intakes of tyr and trp in subjects consum- ing a low-phe diet in combination with aa-mf compared with gmp- mf fasting plasma concentrations of tyr and trp were not significantly different.

.the higher concentrations of tyr and trp in aa-mf resulted in  50 greater daily intake of tyr and trp .

compounds were identified by comparison to metabolon'stable 1characteristics of pku subjects.samples from subjects with pku consuming both aa-mf and gmp-mf.subject age mutationphe mmolltyr mmolltrp mmollmaterials and methodsexperimental designwe conducted metabolomics analysis of a subset of plasma n  18 and 24-h urine n  9 samples obtained from pku subjects who com- pleted our randomized controlled crossover trial where 30 early-treat- ed pku subjects consumed for 3-wk.

there was no significant difference in 6-sulfatoxymelatonin excretion with consumption of aa- mf compared with gmp-mf a. there was large variation due to differences in dietary intake of foods contributing serotonin and melato- nin and interaction of genotype and sex b. females with classical pku showed higher 6-sulfatoxymelatonin excretion compared withfemales with variant pku whereas males with classical pku showed lower 6-sulfatoxymelatonin excretion compared with males with vari- ant pku.

thus tyr from aa-mf has reduced bioavailability compared with tyr from gmp-mf due in part to greater degradation of tyr by in- testinal microbes.

routine tyr supplementation in an attempt to increase catecholamine neurotransmitters may have nega- tive effects on the intestinal microbiota and there is no evidence to sug- gest improved neuropsychological performance in individuals with pku given tyr supplementation .

the kynurenine pathway is the major route for trp metabolism in most mammalian tissues and compounds in this pathway are associated with the pathophysiologythe data support our hypothesis that degradation of tyr by intestinal microbes contributes to the apparent decrease in the bioavailability of tyr from aa-mf compared with gmp-mf.

metabolomic changes demonstrate reduced bioavailability of tyrosine and altered metabolism of tryptophan via the kynurenine pathway with ingestion of medical foods in phenylketonuriadenise m. ney  sangita g. murali  bridget m. stroup  nivedita nair  emily a. sawin fran rohr  harvey l. levy a department of nutritional sciences university of wisconsin-madison wi united statesb division of genetics and genomics boston children's hospital harvard medical school boston ma united statesa r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 17 february 2017received in revised form 5 april 2017accepted 5 april 2017available online 6 april 2017keywords catecholamines serotoninintestinal microbiota glycomacropeptide6-sulfatoxymelatonin phenol sulfatea b s t r a c t background deficiencies of the monoamine neurotransmitters such as dopamine synthesized from tyr and se- rotonin synthesized from trp are of concern in pku.

the absence of aromatic amino acids in gmp phe tyr and trp enables the formulation of a variety of palatable gmp-mf for the man- agement of pku and tyrosinemia.

because gmp is not a complete pro- tein it requires supplementation with the following indispensable amino acids for pku arg his leu trp and tyr .

