this resulted in identification of additional putative psms from growth extracts of s. pneumonia s. gordonii streptococcus vestibularis and streptococcus sobrinus which showed high homology to hymenamide h mz 903.52 callyaerin h mz 1043.62 axinastatin 4 mz 806.47 gramicidin s2 mz 1126.69 phakellistatin11 mz 973.51 janthinocin a mz 1192.61 micropeptin c mz 1027.49 and sch 378167 5511-diamide mz 1135.66 as shown on the gnps site at .in conclusion by using a comparative analysis approach based on the annotation of parent masses in growth cultures of individual oral bacterial isolates in parallel with the highly complex in vitro biofilm community we identified unique signatures of psms over time which suggests that the oral microbiome has a highly dynamic chemotype that is potentially involved in the regulation of community succession and bacterium- to-bacterium interactions as well as cell-to-host signaling.

a msms ion spectra showing major matching ion peaks for platelet activating factor paf parent mass for growth extract spectrum mz 524.368 to 534.378 parent mass for gnps bronze spectrum paf mz 524.371 and the paf precursor lyso-paf parent mass for growth extract spectrum mz 482.362 parent mass for gnps bronze spectrum lyso-paf mz 482.36. b msms ion spectra showing major matching ion peaks for 1-methyladenosine parent mass for growth extract spectrum mz 282.120 to 282.122 parent mass for gnps bronze spectrum 1-methyladenosine mz 282.12. c msms ion spectra showing major matching ion peaks for n-acetylserotonin parent mass for growth extract spectrum mz 219.112 to 219.114 parent mass for gnps gold spectrum n-acetylserotonin mz 282.12. d msms ion spectra showing major matching ion peaks for 3-indolepropionic acid parent mass for growth extract spectrum mz 190.085 to 190.087 parent mass for gnps bronze spectrum 3-indolepropionic mz 219.085.vation.

.wang m carver jj phelan vv sanchez lm garg n peng y nguyen dd watrous j kapono ca luzzatto-knaan t porto c bouslimani a melnikav meehan mj liu wt crusemann m boudreau pd esquenazi e sandoval-calderon m kersten rd pace la quinn ra duncan kr hsu cc floros dj gavilan rg kleigrewe k northen t dutton rj parrot d carlson ee aigle b michelsen cf jelsbak l sohlenkamp c pevzner p edlund a mclean j piel j murphy bt gerwick l liaw cc yang yl humpf hu maansson m keyzers ra sims ac johnson ar sidebottom am sedio be klitgaard a larson cb boya pc torres-mendoza d gonzalez dj silva db marques lm demarque dp pociute e o'neill ec briand e helfrich ej granatosky ea glukhov e ryffel f houson h mohimani h kharbush jj zeng y vorholt ja kurita kl charusanti p mcphail kl nielsen kf vuong l elfeki m traxler mf engene n koyama n vining ob baric r silva rr mascuch sj tomasi s jenkins s macherla v hoffman t agarwal v williams pg dai j neupane r gurr j rodriguez am lamsa a zhang c dorrestein k duggan bm almaliti j allard pm phapale p nothias lf alexandrov t litaudon m wolfender jl kyle je metz to peryea t nguyen dt vanleer d shinn p jadhav a muller r waters km shi w liu x zhang l knight r jensen pr palsson bo pogliano k linington rg gutierrez m lopes np gerwick wh moore bs dorrestein pc bandeira n. 2016. sharing and community curation of mass spectrometry data with global natural products social molecular networking.

here we report on the temporal production and overall chemodiversity of the psm secretome of human oral cavity-associated bacterial isolates belonging to the actinomyces fusobacterium lactobacillus porphyromonas streptococ- cus and veillonella genera as well as an in vitro oral biofilm model system containing more than 100 bacterial species  .

.jenkins h hardy n beckmann m draper j smith ar taylor j fiehn o goodacre r bino rj hall r kopka j lane ga lange bm liu jr mendes p nikolau bj oliver sg paton nw rhee s roessner-tunali u saito k smedsgaard j sumner lw wang t walsh s wurtele es kell db.

through comparative analysis of mass spectral profiles from a collection of cultured oral isolates and an established in vitro multispecies oral community we found that the production of sms both delineates a temporal expression pattern and allows discrimination between bacterial isolates at the spe- cies level.

in this study we assessed secreted peptidic sms psms from 27 oral bacterial isolates and a complex oral in vitro biofilm community of 100 species by using the global natural products social molecular networking and the dereplicator infrastructures which are methodologies that allow automated and putative annota-julyaugust 2017 volume 2 issue 4 e00058-17msystems.asm.org 1tion of psms.

furthermore these annotation approaches also provided a survey of the biosynthetic capacity of common oral bacterial community members and a method to compare isolates based on the variety of their sms.materials and methodsdescription of growth media bacterial strains and saliva inoculum.

other studies identified that they are capable of inter- acting with other bacterial community members at the level of gene transcription as well as regulating bacterial population sizes and survival  .fig 4 venn diagrams showing unique and shared molecular masses produced at different growth stages of in vitro biofilms bio and 14 of the total 27 studied bacterial isolates.

given the relatively few studies comprehensively targeting identification and classification of secreted molecules of human oral bacterial species grown alone or existing as complex multispecies biofilm our goal was to capture unique and previously unknown psm signatures by applying the workflow presented in .

each human mouth harbors a unique bacterial diversity consisting of on average approximately 150 bacterial taxa  and in addition to this complexity within each of these exclusive communities all primary types of organism interaction can exist i.e.

research articlehost-microbe biologymetabolic fingerprints from the human oral microbiome reveal a vast knowledge gap of secreted small peptidic moleculesanna edlunda neha gargb hosein mohimanic alexey gurevichd xuesong hee wenyuan shie pieter c. dorresteinb jeffrey s. mcleanfgenomic medicine group j. craig venter institute la jolla california usaa collaborative mass spectrometry innovation center skaggs school of pharmacy and pharmaceutical sciences university of california san diego la jolla california usab department of computer science and engineering university of california san diego la jolla california usac center for algorithmic biotechnology institute of translational biomedicine st. petersburg state university st. petersburg russiad school of dentistry university of california los angeles california usae department of periodontics university of washington school of dentistry seattle washington usafabstract recent research indicates that the human microbiota play key roles in maintaining health by providing essential nutrients providing immune educa- tion and preventing pathogen expansion.

this is a particular interesting finding as it indicates that the human oral microbiome could possibly impact hormonal levels related to human mood and sleeping patterns.

in a previous global genome mining study of thousands of genomes from bacterial isolates of the human microbiota and 752 metagenomes from five human body sites 3118 sm biosynthetic gene clusters bgcs were identified .

other interesting putative psms produced both by bacterial isolates and the in vitro biofilm community were platelet activating factor paf c-16 mz 524.368 to 524.378 and lyso-paf mz 482.362 to 482.362-like compounds  see table s1 posted at the above url.

