normal group ng model group mg dsd treated group tg.pcapls-daand the metabolic network constructed by kegg based on the identified potential biomarkers revealed that amino acid metabolism pyruvate taurine and gut microbial metabolism hippurate betaine glycolysis gluconeogenessis pyruvate the tca cycle pyruvate succinate and lipid metabolism acetone were involved in the metabolic changesar2xq2ar2xr2yq2 cumof ra.pathways in the pathological process of ra.biochemical interpretationprevious metabolomics and clinical biochemistry studies have de- monstrated that ra could lead to a series of complex responses from multiple metabolic pathways such as energy metabolism carbohydrate metabolism lipid metabolism amino acid metabolism and so on .

4. score plot derived from the 1h nmr spectra of urine from rats in the normal model and dsd treated groups by pls-da analysis a. cross validation of the pls-da model using 200 random permutations to evaluate the validity of the model b. s-plot c generated by comparison of metabolic profiles between the normal and model groups based on pls-da and 1h- 1hcosy spectrum d for metabolite assignment.table 2summary of parameters for evaluating model quality a the number of components.

seven metabolites with significant changes in the cia model group were considered as potential biomarkers for ra and characterized as taurine 1 urea 2 betaine 3 pyruvate 4 hippurate 5 succinate 6 and acetone 7. the dsdtreatment intervened in the abnormal biomarkers of 1 3 4 5 6 and 7 which suggested that the therapeutic effect of dsd on cia may involve regulating the dysfunction of taurine and hypotaurine metabolism gut microbiota metabolism pyruvate metabolism glycolysisgluconeogen- esis tca cycle and lipid metabolism.

according to pathway analysis using identified metabolites and correlation construction taurine and hypotaurine metabolism gut microbiota metabolism pyruvate metabolism glycolysisgluconeogenesis the citrate cycle tca cycle and lipid metabolism were recognized as being the most influenced metabolic pathways associated with ra.

furthermore we used the data derived from the correlation matrix r to construct a visualized correlation network by gephi -b. the resulting correlation network consisted of 7 nodes biomarks and 21edges average degree or node connectivity 6.00. based on the visualized network constructed by the correlation coeffi- ciency -b metabolites such as taurine pyruvate succinate be- taine and acetone were found to exist with stronger correlations ac- cording to the different width of edges which further indicated that the taurine and hypotaurine metabolism gut microbiota metabolism pyr- uvate metabolism glycolysisgluconeogenesis tca cycle and lipid metabolism were the most relevant pathways in ra.

however further study of dsd remains necessary to identify more potential active components or sy- nergistic actions that can contribute to the restoration of deviations in taurine and hypotaurine metabolism gut microbiota metabolism pyr- uvate metabolism glycolysisgluconeogenesis tca cycle and lipid metabolism pathways.

in our study the cia rats achieved severe clinical arthritis beginning on day 7 after primary immunization and the knee joint swelling reached its peak on day 21 in the model group -a. the body weights of the rats were measured and the weights of the model group were lower than normal group starting on day 7 -b. it is reported that dexamethasone is a therapeutic drug for the treatment of ra.

3. representative 600 mhz one-dimensional cpmg 1h nmr spectra of urine samples from the normal group a model group b dexamethasone group c and dsd treated group d.metabolism pyruvate metabolism 0.19 glycolysisgluconeogenesis 0.10 the citrate cycle tca cycle 0.10 and the lipid metabolism pathway were recognized as the most influenced metabolic pathwaysassociated with ra.

as shown in  the elevated level of acetone was observed to decrease significantly following treatment with dsd and joints with a slighter degree of articular cartilage injuries were found in the dsd treated group than in the cia model group -d which suggested that dsd might remedy the dysregulation of lipid metabolism corresponding to glycolysis and pyruvate metabolism induced in ra.fig.

the rats were housed in plastic cages in a controlled room with 55 - 15 humidity a temperature of 22 - 3 degc and a daily light cycle of 0600-1800. this research was conducted according to protocols ap- proved by the institutional ethics committee of guangxi medical university.the rats were divided equally and randomly into four groups the normal group ng model group mg dexamethasone group dg and dsd treated group tg.

rats in the normal and model groups received distilled water 1 ml100 g i.g.. the dose of dsd and dexamethasone we selected was 16.2 gkg and0.07 mgkg in order to equivalent to the actual clinic dosage based onthe conversion coefficient 0.018 of the body surface area conversion factor between rats 200 g and human 70 kg.

degradation of lipid peroxides results in various products in cia rats including a variety of carbonyl com- pounds such as acetone whose appearance was considered to be one of the biomarkers for dysfunctioned lipid metabolism induced in cia rats .

however various toxicities such as cushing's syndrome and diabetes have been associated with chronic administration of glucocorticoids which preclude their clinicaltable 1biochemical parameters study of serum tnf-a in normal group ng model group mg dexamethasone group dg and dsd treated group tg x - s n  6.groupstnf-a pgmlng31.648 - 2.630mg65.283 - 5.779dg35.767 - 7.152tg38.464 - 8.200compared to model group  p  0.05.use at highly effective anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory doses.

r2 is the fraction of the sum of squares explained by the model which represents model fitness.

p  0.05 vs normal groupp  0.01vs normal group p  0.05 vs model group p  0.01 vs model group.fig.

