The presence of such taxa in the ecosystem can be functionally important as they could contribute to biogeochemical processes The findings of the bacterial communities' composition in our study differ from studies of eutrophic lakes and reservoirs partially or totally drained every year Similar to other freshwater reservoirs and lakes Proteobacteria Actinobacteria and Bacteroidetes were the most abundant bacterial phyla in both reservoirs comprising over 90 of total obtained sequences.

At present it is used as a drinking water supply for power production and aquaculture.The Tsankov Kamak is a newly constructed reservoir put into operation in 2010 as the uppermost reservoir in the Lower Vacha cascade.

Sampling was conducted at three sites at Batak reservoir B1-B3 and two sites at Tsankov Kamak reservoir CK1-CK2 Fig.

Total phosphorusFIGURE 1 Location of sampling sites in a Batak reservoir b Tsankov Kamak reservoir in Bulgaria.

After the quality sequence filtering a total of 835924 and 506662 nucleotide reads were obtained from the Batak reservoir and the Tsankov Kamak reservoir respectively Table Following the operational taxonomic units OTU picking process a total of 435503 sequences were assigned to taxa from the samples CK1-CK2 and 706848 from the samples B1-B3.For all samples clustering generated 1999 bacterial OTUs.

Alpha diversity for the Tsankov Kamak reservoir did not differ significantly along the longitudinal gradient but our results demonstrated that both taxa richness and diversity were highest at the upstream part of the reservoir.

Like the Batak reservoir Proteobacteria was the most abundant division in the Tsankov Kamak reservoir with 73 CK1 to 84 CK2 of total isolated OTUs followed in decreasing order by Actinobacteria 8.8 - CK1 14.8 - CK2 and Bacteroidetes 9.7 - CK1 6.3 - CK2.

Bacterial diver- sity and richness increased along the water flow in the Tsankov Kamak reservoir while the bacterioplankton communities showed significant spatial distribution differ- ences with the highest diversity found near the net cage farm in the Batak reservoir.

MATERIALS AND METHODS Study sitesThis study was carried out in two morphologically distinct reservoirs located in Rhodope Mountains Bulgaria bothdesignated as heavily modified water bodies in oligotrophic conditions from the mountain and semi-mountain lake types according to the national lake typology The Batak reservoir was built in 1959 as a part of a hydroelectric cascade.

Of those 1798 OTUs were detected in Batak B reservoir and 1774 OTUs in Tsankov Kamak CK samples Table A considerable number of OTUs were sample specific 36 OTUs for B and 16 OTUs for CK with 18 from B and 32.3 from CK being presented by less than 10 reads in the dataset of the reservoirs.

