as a result there is a large gap in this field where the identification of gene products from the gut's microbiota will lead to meaningful and complementary information about the relationship between host-microbiota and the outcomes of this close interaction in health and in the pathogenesis of complex diseases such as obesity and cardiovascular disorders.taking this into consideration in this review we present the application and the main limitations of metaproteomic studies in complex microbiota environments such as the gut also addressing the up-to-date pipelines in sample preparation prior to fractionationseparation and mass spectrometry analysis.

this proposed platform was shown to be more time-effective than 2d-lc-msms also presenting an in-depth characterization of gut microbiota by uncovering proteins from over 600 different microbial species and 250 functional protein families.metaproteomic studies will make major progress if a comprehensive database covering the genes and expresses proteins from all gut microbial species is developed.

proteomics 13 535-537. doi howitt m. r. and garrett w. s. 2012. a complex microworld in the gut gut microbiota and cardiovascular disease connectivity.

nature 444 1022-1023. doi li d. kirsop j. and tang w. h. 2015. listening to our gut contribution of gut microbiota and cardiovascular risk in diabetes pathogenesis.

 1 and 21 department of health molecular and physiologic adaptations to exercise centro universitario do distrito federal brasilia brazil 2 s-inova biotech universidade catolica dom bosco campo grande braziledited byjohn d. wade florey institute of neuroscience andmental health australiareviewed byshuwei li university of maryland college parkusamatthew a. coleman university of california at davis usacorrespondence bernardo a. petriz specialty sectionthis article was submitted tochemical biology a section of the journal frontiers in chemistryreceived 09 august 2016accepted 13 january 2017published 26 january 2017citation petriz ba and franco ol 2017 metaproteomics as a complementary approach to gut microbiota in health and disease.

therefore metaproteomics or community proteogenomics has emerged as a complementary approach to metagenomic data as a field in proteomics aiming to perform large-scale characterization of proteins from environmental microbiota such as the human gut.

metaproteomic studies will make major progress if a comprehensive database covering the genes and expresses proteins from all gut microbial species is developed.

to this end we here present some of the main limitations of metaproteomic studies in complex microbiota environments such as the gut also addressing the up-to-date pipelines in sample preparation prior to fractionationseparation and mass spectrometry analysis.

finally prospects are addressed regarding the application of metaproteomic analysis using a unified host-microbiome gene database and other meta-omics platforms.keywords mass spectrometry based proteomics fecal metaproteome gut microbiota metabolomics microbiota genome catalog omics lc-msmsintroductionthe use of mass spectrometry in biomolecular identification is responsible for incalculable progress in the biomedical and health field.

2016.in the past few years metagenomic studies have linked the gut microbiota to the pathogenesis of obesity.

2006. some of these obesogenic factors are thought to occur by the interaction of selective microbiota community with gut genes influencing the host metabolism.

thus gut transcriptome studies have brought some interesting insights to this aspect also revealing novel candidates linking microbiota to obesity and cardiovascular disease ussher et al.

2015 to alterations within the gut microbiota recent studies have also associated lower levels of certain bacterial families e.g.

2015. in addition the progression of cardiovascular risk factors such as atherosclerosis has also been linked to gut microbiota howitt and garrett 2012 ussher et al.

finally the prospects for the application of metaproteomic analysis using a unified host- microbiome gene database are addressed.from metagenome to metaproteome analysis of gut microbiotaconsidering the gastrointestinal tract as one of the most complex biological ecosystems ever studied high-throughputmetagenomic studies e.g.

