2005.functional diversity of the p. xylostella gut microbiotametagene analysis revealed 15046 18324 and 18197 non- redundant protein-coding genes in the gut microbiota of the p. xylostella larva pupa and adult respectively supplementary table 3. the gene functions annotated by the kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes kegg pathways indicated that metabolic function was the most abundant in the metagenome representing 48.1 47.9 and 47.9 of the total ko function in gut microbiota of the p. xylostella larva pupa and adult respectively figure 3a.

2003. our results support the hypothesis that these microbiota enzymes have a potential ability to enhance resistance of p. xylostella gut to ros.amino acid synthesis in the gut microbiota of p. xylostellaanimals cannot synthesize some essential amino acids and must therefore obtain them from food hansen and moran 2011. to compensate for host deficiency host symbiont cooperation inproducing essential amino acids is a common phenomenon in phloem-feeding insects baumann 2005 for example symbiotic bacteria of the pea aphid synthesize arginine hansen and moran 2011. based on p. xylostella genome database tang et al.

bacteria represented 98 of the entire microbiota figure 1a supplementary table 4.the present metagenomic study provided a complete taxonomic profile of the p. xylostella gut microbiota figure 1 supplementary figures 1-5. overall 10 phyla and 148 species of microorganisms were identified supplementary table 4. the species diversity is consistent with our previous study of larvae with 150 otus identified at the order level of the p. xylostella midgut microbiota based on the v6 region sequencing xia et al.

2013. the overall abundance and diversity of the cellulases and endohemicellulases in the p. xylostella gut microbiota were at intermediate levels compared to those found in termites and honey bees supplementary table 10. the brassicaceae exclusive food of p. xylostella contains over 3000 species hall et al.

the high abundance of gh5cellulases in the p. xylostella gut microbiota may contribute to its adaptive capacity to feed on these plants specifically to maximize the extent to which these complex substrates are digested.a series of enzymes associated with cellulose and hemicellulose hydrolysis was found to be encoded by c. maltaromaticum and enterobacter living in the p. xylostella gut including 14-beta-cellobiosidase endoglucanase and beta-glucosidase.

2013. thus we speculate that the abundance of aromatic compound degradation enzymes in the p. xylostella gut microbiota may have led to co-benefits for p. xylostella and its gut microbiota.some plant phenolics such as phenol catechol chlorogenic acid and caffeic acid are directly or indirectly toxic to herbivores by stimulating dna degradation via the induction of reactive oxygen species ros when they are oxidized moran et al.

further research is needed to identify thesepathways nevertheless our study opens an avenue for the study of nutrition interaction between p. xylostella and its gut bacteria.conclusionsour study based on metagenomic analysis of p. xylostella gut microbiota using next-generation sequencing provides a detailed profile of taxonomic and functional information regarding thep.

this may be a unique phenomenon to p. xylostella leading to a new question does the same set of bacteria perform different functions during host development future studies should include metatranscriptomics and metaproteomics to validate this phenomenon and thus clarify the expressions of functional genes of the gut in vivo.our research combined with the previous p. xylostella genome studies indicates that its gut microbe complements its own genome allowing the resulting holobiont to function as an evolutionarily adaptive herbivore and assuming the status as one of the world's most serious pests.

data were analyzed by one-way anova followed by lsd post-hoc test using ibm spss statistics 19.results and discussioncompositional diversity of the p. xylostellagut microbiotagut microbiota of p. xylostella larvae pupae and adults were sequenced.

we found that the p. xylostella gut bacteria metagenome possessed the whole pathway for synthesis of his and thr figure 6. our results are significant as they suggest that p. xylostella-symbiont cooperates with its host to produce these lacking amino acids thus having an important impact on host nutrition.

xylostella gut microbiota a bar-coded pyrosequencing on the v3v5 of 16s rrna region in different p. xylostella developmental stages of the gut microbiota was carried out see supplementary materials and methods.

xylostella gut microbiota to influence the starch and sucrose metabolic pathways supplementary figure 8. these enzymes were widely involved in the metabolism of carbohydrate which indicated their potential roles in the digestion of brassicaceae tissue.figure 4  p. xylostella gut bacteria-mediated metabolism of biomass.

14 327-334. doi bi j. and felton g. 1995. foliar oxidative stress and insect herbivory primary compounds secondary metabolites and reactive oxygen species as components cartea m. e. francisco m. soengas p. and velasco p. 2010. phenolic compounds in brassica vegetables.

37 699-735. doi filippidou s. junier t. wunderlin t. lo c. c. li p. e. chain p. s. et al.

the presence of specific enzymes in the microbiota community such as supporting amino acid synthesis digestion and detoxification functions demonstrates the beneficial interactions between p. xylostella and its gut microbiota.

