environmental microbiology 2017 1911 4382-4391doi10.11111462-2920.13859minireviewmetagenome-based surveillance and diagnostic approaches to studying the microbial ecology of food production and processing environmentsconor j. doyle12 paul w. o'toole23 and paul d. cotter131teagasc food research centre moorepark fermoycork ireland.2school of microbiology university college cork cork ireland.3apc microbiome institute cork ireland.summarymetagenomic-based analyses have the potential to revolutionize our understanding of the microbiology of food production and processing environments.

2016. moving forward a similar approach to this could be adapted to track etiologi- cal agents associated with foodborne illness through the food chain or to identify critical control points for microbial contaminants within food production environments.application of shotgun metagenomics and metatranscriptomicslimitations associated with compositional metagenomic surveillance of food production environments relating to an inability to assign taxonomy at the species level or to provide insights relating to functional potential can be overcome by utilising shotgun metagenomics.

1. ultimately by adopting these approaches it can be possible to assess how factors such as production practices building design seasonality and operating procedures may be adapted to safeguard the microbial integrity of the food supply chain.the microbial ecology of crop production and livestock managementit is important to consider that these approaches are not limited to studying microbial biogeography of the food production facility environment.

these examples highlight the ben- eficial influence that the resident facility microbiome can have on the food production process.it is important to note that antagonistic microbial adap- tations may also be selected for in food processing facili- ties bokulich et al.

these antagonistic microbes are then subsequently inoculated onto the meat as it is proc- essed into different cuts.it is evident from the studies highlighted above that the food production facility microbiome can exert a posi- tive or negative influence on the food produced within it.

2013. in the future metagenomic sequencing could be used to iden- tify additional novel food-grade microbes that already exist within these facilities that could be cultivated on surfaces to confer positives attributes on the production plant ecosystem mirroring the microbiomes that have evolved in artisanal production facilities.recent advances in understanding the compositional metagenomics of the food production and processing environmentwhile early approaches to using this technology pro- duced novel and interesting results relating to for exam- ple milk and cheese these studies were focused primarily on the microbial composition of the food prod- ucts and were predominantly curiosity driven.

this issue is addressed below.microbial sourcetracking of communities through the food chaintraditionally the tracking of microbes through the food chain has been extensively applied to study the move- ment of pathogenic strains after the occurrence of an outbreak of foodborne illness.

due to these issues metatranscriptomics has yet to be exten- sively applied to studying the food or the food production and processing environments.

2016. ultimately it is clear that we are only now gaining true insight into the complexity of the food production and processing environments it is of paramount importance that we use new metage- nostic approaches to better design processing facilities and implement control strategies for reducing the ingress of harmful microbes in food production and proc- essing facilities.acknowledgementsthis study was funded through a teagasc walsh fellowship 2013030 to c.j.d.

this mini-review will discuss the merits of adopting metagenostic-based approaches highlight novel insights that they have provided to date and consider how they could be further implemented.introductionit has long been recognized that bacteria from food pro- duction and processing environments can have positive or negative influences on the end products.

despite the fact that modern food processing facilities are designed to reduce the risk and likelihood of producing spoiled or unsafe produce they are not abiotic.

2011. at present although there is no data on the volume of food product loss caused by unknown microbes or not readily culturable microbial agents there is evidence to suggest that it may be significant quigley et al.

2016. here we outline the benefits of using a microbial ecology-based approach to study the food production and processing facility microbiome and more specifically we highlight the advantages of utilising metagenomic-based analyses to further understand these environments.

examples of how these approaches have improved or potentially will improve our under- standing of microbial influences on some representative food processingproduction environments is presented in fig.

in order to effectively monitor and control the microbial ecology of food pro- duction chains from 'farm to fork' it is necessary to firstfig.

