molecular  cellular pro- teomics 16 10.1074mcp.ra117.000102 1610-1620 2017.during birth and rapidly thereafter microbes colonize the human gastrointestinal gi tract and eventually form a stable adult-like microbial population 1-3. it is generally believed that the first colonizers are facultative anaerobes primarily staphylococcus streptococcus enterococcus and entero- bacter who create an anaerobic environment to allow for colonization by obligate anaerobes like bifidobacterium bac- teroides and clostridium 4. in early life the intestinal micro- biota is dynamic and its development is highly susceptible to host and environmental factors 5. establishment of the in- testinal microbiota has shown to be greatly impacted by preterm birth 6. an abnormal pattern of microbial coloniza- tion is characterized in preterm infants with high levels of facultative anaerobes and delayed colonization with obligate anaerobes like bifidobacterium 7-9. furthermore it has been shown that dominance of anaerobes occurs around postcon- ceptional age 33-36 weeks underlining the substantial influ- ence of gestational age ga on microbiota development 10. in addition mode of delivery type of feeding and the use of antibiotics are factors that have shown to independently af- fect microbiota composition in preterm infants 11. more frequent than term infants preterm infants are exposed to caesarean section hospitalization antibiotic treatment de- layed introduction of enteral feeding and formula feeding contributing to a bacterial community rich in facultative an- aerobes 11. respiratory support is a potential influencer of microbiota development but is only occasionally mentioned in current studies.

as such de- velopment of the gut microbiota is greatly impacted in preterm infants who have an immature gut and are ex- posed to factors like hospitalization caesarean section antibiotics and respiratory support.design we analyzed fecal microbiota composition and activity of ten preterm infants gestational age 25-30 weeks birthweight 630 -1750 g during the first six post- natal weeks through metaproteomics lc-msms and 16s-rrna gene sequencing.results a gestational-age-dependent microbial signa- ture is observed enabling microbiota-based differentia- tion between extremely preterm 25-27 weeks gestation and very preterm 30 weeks gestation infants.

this is in concord- ance with a previous study showing that dominance of obligate anaerobes occurs around postconceptional age 33-36 weeks in preterm infants 10. the development to- ward a bifidobacterium-dominant microbiota as observed in vp infants but not in ep infants is more representative of microbiota development in term vaginally born breast-fed infants which is considered most beneficial during early-life development.the observed differences between proteome- and 16s- based taxonomy in ep infants could indicate that microbiota composition is not representative for metabolic activity of the microbiota.

host-microbe interactions influence gi-microbiota development in preterm infantstract and immune system development 12 and disturbances in microbiota development have been related to development of disorders like necrotizing enterocolitis infant colic atopy inflammatory bowel disease and obesity 13-16.despite increasing knowledge about microbiota composi- tion in preterm infants knowledge about the functional sig- natures of the intestinal microbiota remains limited.

a meta- proteomics case study of one preterm infant revealed that bacterial activity transits toward more complex metabolic functions in time 17. the temporal increase in functional complexity has been confirmed by metabolomics in a bigger set of preterm infants in which metabolic complexity was related to weaning 18. the same group also showed an increase in specific metabolites prior to necrotizing enteroco- litis diagnosis in preterm infants 19. to our knowledge no further data are available about microbiota activity during the first weeks of a preterm infant's life.

ventilation re- mained the main factor associated with microbiota composi- tion 4.7 p  0.002. in addition maternal antibiotics and duration of the first and second course of antibiotic treatmentrespectively explained 2 2.6 and 1.8 of the observed variation in microbiota composition p  0.05.discussionthe current study implements metaproteomics and 16s- rrna gene sequencing in a cohort of preterm infants to get insight into the establishment and activity of their intestinal microbiota.

researchc 2017 by the american society for biochemistry and molecular biology inc.this paper is available on line at metaproteomics reveals functional differences in intestinal microbiota development of preterm infantssromy d. zwittink diny van zoeren-grobbenss rocio martinp richard a. van lingenss liesbeth j. groot jebbinkss sjef boeren  ingrid b. renesp ruurd m. van elburgp clara belzerssss and jan knolpobjective development of the gastrointestinal tract and immune system can be modulated by the gut microbiota.

pre- vious studies indeed show that antibiotic treatment greatly affects microbiota development in preterm infants 41- 43. although we were able to replicate our findings considering the role of respiratory support and antibiotic treatment on microbiota development in the complete cohort the effect appeared to be less apparent.

in the present study 16s-rrna gene sequencing and metaproteomics are com- bined to study microbiota development during the first six postnatal weeks in preterm infants and to identify the factors associated with this development.experimental proceduressubjects and sample collection--this study was part of an obser- vational nonintervention study involving preterm infants admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit or the pediatric ward of isala in zwolle the netherlands.

metatranscriptomics and proteomics have only recently been applied to study gi and microbiota function in preterm infants 17 34 35. as such a previous study showed that metaproteomics data are consistent with metagenomics and 16s-rrna gene analysis and that bacterial activity tran- sits toward more complex metabolic functions in time 17. however those findings were based on analysis of the fecal metaproteome of one preterm infant 28 weeks ga during the first three postnatal weeks.

the current study adds up to these data by using a combination of metaproteomics and 16s-rrna gene sequencing to study microbiota development during the first six postnatal weeks in ten preterm infants of varying ga.analysis of the fecal proteome indicated low bacterial load till the second postnatal week in all preterm infants.

the ten most abundant proteins ac- counted for 63.5 77.6 and 58.8 of total proteins in1 the abbreviations used are cho carbohydrate ep extremely preterm ga gestational age gi gastrointestinal hmo human milk oligosaccharide ibaq intensity-based absolute quantification ko kegg orthology otu operational taxonomic unit rrna ribosomal rna vp very preterm.microbiota development in preterm infantstable iiitop ten kegg orthology identifiers per gestational age group during postnatal weeks 3- 6. per gestational age group average relative abundances for each kegg orthology identifier were calculated based on ibaq intensitiesga gestational age ko kegg orthology id identifier cho carbohydrate ep extremely preterm vp very preterm.ep25-26 ep27 and vp infants respectively.

as the gut microbiota plays a major role in development of the neonate gestational age and its associated factors could set the stage for early and later life health complications via interference with microbiota development.

ab antibiotic ab1 duration of first course of antibiotics ab2 duration of second course of antibiotics ventcpapdays duration of ventilation andor continuous positive airway pressure in days.respiratory support and antibiotic treatment influences microbiota succession--the effect of clinical characteristics in association with microbiota composition and function were analyzed by redundancy analysis.

in this study the observed differences in microbiota development between ep and vp infants were mainly drivenby respiratory support and antibiotic treatment which extent is negatively correlated to ga. one of the respiratory support strategies is continuous positive airway pressure in which pressure is combined with airoxygen administration thereby allowing air to reach the gi-tract 36. this might create an oxygen-rich environment in the gi-tract which could impede the passage and survival of obligate anaerobes and hence lead to establishment of an intestinal microbiota dominated by aerobes and facultative anaerobes.

