only the 4-hydroxybenzoyl-coa reductase ec 1.3.7.9 related to o2-independent central pathways was present in all samples with a relative abundance above 0.003. within the o2-dependent pathways the most prevalent genes in all samples were 4-carboxymuconolactone decarboxylase ec 4.1.1.44 and 3-oxoadipate enol-lactonase ec 3.1.1.24 for intradiol ring cleav- age and homogentisate 12-dioxygenase ec 1.13.11.5 for extradiol ring-cleavage.in summary the uasb and egsb reactors showed a prevalence of central and peripheral o2-independent pathways whereas the fbr re- actor presented a prevalence of central and peripheral o2-dependent pathways.

the selected functions were o2-independent peripheral pathways car- boxylation addition of fumarate and hydroxylation o2-dependent pe- ripheral pathways dioxygenase and monooxygenase o2-dependent central pathways oxygen intradiol ring-cleavage and oxygen-depen- dent extradiol ring-cleavage and o2-independent central pathways atp dependent ring cleavage .overall families belonging to archaea and bacteria domains were in- volved with some steps of aromatic compound degradation based on the functional gene assignment .

these data suggest a predominance of aerobic pe- ripheral pathways in the fbr and anaerobic peripheral pathways in the uasb and egsb reactors.the main goal of peripheral pathways is to transform aromatic com- pounds into central intermediate compounds such as benzoyl- coenzyme a .

oliveira a microbial resources division research center for chemistry biology and agriculture cpqba campinas university - unicamp campinas sp cep 13081-970 brazilb school of technology division of technology in environment sanitation campinas university - unicamp limeira sp cep 13484-332 brazilc laboratory of biological processes department of hydraulics and sanitation engineering school of sao carlos - university of sao paulo eesc - usp campus ii sao carlos sp cep 13563-120 brazilh i g h l i g h t staxonomic and functional diversity of distinct bioreactors were compared.metabolic pathways involved in aromat-ic compounds removal were evaluated.biological data showed egsb and uasb were more closely related than the fbr.anaerobic aromatic degradation path- ways were enriched in uasb and egsb.in contrast fbr showed enrichment ofaerobic microbiota and pathways.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 27 october 2016received in revised form 20 february 2017accepted 20 february 2017available online 27 february 2017 editor d. barcelokeywordslinear alkylbenzene sulfonate las aromatic compound degradation pathways illumina sequencing genetic potentiala b s t r a c t the taxonomic and functional diversity of three different biological reactors fluidized bed reactor fbr up-flow anaerobic sludge blanket reactor uasb and expanded granular sludge bed reactor egsb used for commercial laundry wastewater treatment was investigated using metagenome shotgun sequencing.

normally o2-independent peripheral pathways include carboxylation the addition of fumarate and hydroxylation whereas o2-dependent peripheral pathways include the action of dioxygenases and monooxygenases.

the highest relative abundance of reads in this category was observed for fbr 0.35 whereas for uasb and egsb the values were approximately 0.10. for the pathways for aromatic compound degradation data showed the presence of o2- independent peripheral pathways that include carboxylation the addi- tion of fumarate and hydroxylation with a relative abundance of 0.94 for the fbr reactor and 1.30-1.53 for egsb and uasb respectively .

therefore uasb showed a higher relative abundance of o2-independent central pathways whereas fbr showed a higher per- centage of o2-dependent central pathways.

interestingly archaeal members may be related to o2-independent peripheral and o2-dependent central pathways suggesting that such microorganisms should not be neglected in future studies of the biodegradation of las.additionally some bacterial families such as bradyrhizobiaceae sphingomonadaceae nocardiaceae rhodocyclaceae and geobacteraceae likely play an important role in the degradation pathways of aromatic compounds which is consistent with previous findings using 16s rrna gene sequencing.conclusionsthis study represents a major step forward compared to previous studies in which the functional roles were inferred using the rrna gene.

moreover the decreasing cost and in- creasing sequencing depth of high throughput sequencing technologies enable the high-resolution analysis of complex samples such as biolog- ical reactors used for wastewater treatment.knowledge about the aerobic and anaerobic pathways involved in the biodegradation of las is scarce.

in the anaerobic activation or o2-independent peripheral pathways the reads related to carboxylation were mainly assigned to bradyrhizobiaceae followed by comamonadaceae.

based on taxonomic and functional data egsb and uasb were more similar than fbr showing a predominance of anaerobic microbiota and o2- independent pathways for the degradation of aromatic compounds.

2016. metagenomic recon- struction of key anaerobic digestion pathways in municipal sludge and industrial wastewater biogas-producing systems.

2015. dissecting microbial community structure and methane-producing pathways of a full-scale anaerobic reactor digesting activated sludge from wastewater treatment by metagenomic sequencing.

although some exclusive gen- era present in fbr are commonly found in anaerobic microbial commu- nities they show aerobic or facultative anaerobic growth.

the exclusive and shared genera by uasb and egsb samples showed a predominance of facultative anaerobic or strict anaerobic growth.the investigation of the virome in the biological reactor samples showed overrepresentation of the microviridae family with relative abundance ranging from 51.3 to 68.1 and with bacteria as a host followed by myoviridae and siphoviridae families with percentages higher than 6 and with bacteria and archaea as hosts .

