recent studies indicate that lab use hydroxycinnamic acids as external acceptors of electrons allowing the cofactor recy- cling and gaining additional metabolic energy to counter- act the stressful conditions generated by phenolics  preserving energy balance the expression and organiza- tion of genes involved in gallic acid metabolism underlie a68 food biotechnologytable 2review of the recent studies on phenolics metabolism by lactic acid bacteria during fermentation of plant matricesplant matricesphenolics metabolizedphenolics releasedlactic acid bacteria speciesreferencecitation numbercherry prunus avium l. juiceprotocatechuic acidcatechollactobacillus plantarum lactobacillus spicheri lactobacillus fermentumcaffeic aciddihydrocaffeic acidl.

available online at sciencedirectmetabolic and functional paths of lactic acid bacteria in plant foods get out of the labyrinthpasquale filannino12 2even though lactic acid bacteria are only a small part of the plant autochthonous microbiota they represent the most important microbes having the capability to promote significant changes in the health-promoting properties of plant foods.owing to the variety of plant chemical components and the possible pathways for bioconversion plant fermentation is like a metabolic labyrinth undertaken by bacteria.

the capability to adapt to the intrinsic features of the raw plantplant foods the labyrinth followed by lactic acid bacteria filannino di cagno and gobbetti 65figure 1the metabolic and functional labyrinth followed by lactic acid bacteria during plant foods fermentation.

thus the lactic acid fermentation of ginseng allows a controlled bioconversion of ginsenosides to more bioavailable and bioactive metabolites.the enrichment in conjugated linoleic acid has been achieved in several plant substrates e.g.

sev- eral fermented plant substrates such as date fruit and cactus cladodes were enriched in g-amino butyric acid gaba a non-protein amino acid with well-known physiological functions in humans  fication of bioactive peptides deriving from plant food proteins follows the growing interest of the scientific community and public opinion toward plant-based foods.

4-vinylcatechol and 4-ethylcatechol have been shown as effective natural co-factors for acti- vation of the nrf2 cellular defence pathway the master regulator of oxidant defence in mammalian cells conversion of phenolic acid esters and tanninsa further outcome of plant fermentation is the degrada- tion of phenolic acid esters or tannins by microbial esterases.

the combination of transcriptome and physiological analyses revealed that a proton motive force could be generated during gallic acid meta- bolism as a result of electrogenic gallic acid uptake coupled with proton consumption by the intracellular gallate decarboxylase.38.

the success of these paths is connected to the adaptive growth and survival of lactic acid bacteria.

a panel of various interacting omics approaches unraveled the specific traits of lactic acid bacteria to adapt to plants which allow the optimal design of fermentation strategies for targeted raw matrices.addresses1 department of soil plant and food science university of bari aldo moro 70126 bari italy2 faculty of sciences and technology libera universita di bolzano39100 bolzano italycorresponding author di cagno raffaella introductionfermentations may lead to significant changes to the health-promoting features to plant foods.

the lactic acid fermentation is the most widespread.

the axis 'fermented plant foods -- human health' is easily conceivable because of the inherent chemical composition of raw plant matrices and the metabolic and functional versatility of lactic acid bacteria lab .

oxalate protease and a-amylase inhibitors lectins condensed tannins andphytic acid.

despite the multi- tude of metabolic pathways that may potentially affect the health-promoting properties of plant foods only the most innovative and relevant findings will be deepened.which lactic acid bacteria may perform metabolic labyrinth paths under plant-like conditionsall plant-associated microenvironments contain a diver- sity of beneficial and pathogenic microbes which are of pivotal importance for plant nutrition health status and defense.

to date l. plantarum was the only endophytic lactic acid bacterium identified throughout the life cycle of the oregano and wheat plants pontonio et al.

within the lab fructophilic lactic acid bacteria flab represent novel potential sources of functional attributes .

