statistical analysis performed with two-way anova using n  9 for all groups.between all groups -we compared hfd vs chow 1 hfd  metformin vs chow  metformin 2 hfd  metformin vs hfd  and chow  metformin vs chow 4. metabolites were found to be dictated by diet 10 upregulated and 15 down- regulated metabolites were identified in hfd vs chow groups.

abundance long-twofold changes for otus in c hfd vs chowd hfd  met vs hfd  chow e hfd  met vs hfd and f chow  met vs chow mice.

hfd also significantly increased total marrow adipose tissue volume 2i and even when normal- ized to marrow volume which was also increased by hfd 2j hfd increased mat as seen in the rel- ative marrow adipose tissue volume 2k.

overall the hfd femoral bone cortical phenotype was partially corrected through metformin treatment.similar to tibia static histomorphometry osteoblast numbers were decreased in hfd vs chow and partially rescued with metformin in femora -femoral osteoclast parameter changes were undetectable sug- gesting that the increased medullary area was mostly driven by a decrease in osteoblast number and activity induced by hfd rather than osteoclast activation 4d.

interestingly other groups have found hfd decreases bone mass and increases osteoclast numbers in c57bl6j mice but these studies used older mice shorter term diets or both - suggesting that hfd initi- ation age and duration affect osteoclast response likely from the high energy requirements of growing mice or increase in mouse weight and hence bone loading in longer term hfd feeding.there has been extensive research into the effects of obesity on bone health with most findings suggesting that obesity increases mechanical loading on bones resulting in increased bone volumes  interestingly obesity has also been shown to correlate with increased risk of fracture and increased visceral adipose spe- cifically is inversely associated with bone mechanical properties in adult males our data suggest that obesity in growing mice leads to cortical bone expansion and increased endocortical resorption resulting in a net increase in the long bones' moments of inertia and thus greater rigidity in response to increased body weight.

hfd significantly increased medullary area 2d which was partially rescued by metformin as evidenced by a substantial interaction coefficient between metformin and hfd.

in sum metformin decreases mat induced by hfd and may activate osteoblasts that are inhibited by hfd.

hfd also significantly increased vat adipocyte cell size but metformin did not rescue this response and however there was less inflammatory cell infiltra- tion in hfd adipose depots when these mice were treated with metformin suggesting that metformin's anti-inflammatory properties specifically affected vat fb.

using oso4 mct analysis of tibial mat both i marrow adipose tissue volume and j marrow volume were increased by hfd vs chow and showed a substantial interaction effect between metformin and hfd.

interestingly 72 otus including taxa from lactococcus coprococcus ruminococcus staphylo- coccus akkermansia streptococcus oscillospira lac- tobacillus allobaculum clostridium and dorea were found to be differentially abundant in hfd mice treated with metformin vs hfd mice alone 7e.

on the other hand trabecular bone volumes in both femur and tibia were not altered by an hfd or bymetformin except in the tibia where hfd increased trabecular thickness.

some findings show that hypercholesterolemic mice also present antable 3.serum metabolites significantly different for hfd  met vs hfd n  3osteoporotic phenotype and statins the first-line drug for hypercholesterolemia increase bmd and in some studies reduce fracture risk in humans yet other studies found no long-term effects of cholesterol low- density lipoprotein or high-density lipoprotein levels on bmd after correcting for confounding variables what is becoming clear through numerous studies however is that the net negative effect of obesity on the skeleton appears to be driven by a myriad of inter- connected pathologies and local as well as systemic humoral and neuronal signaling factors such as leptinand chemerin this report demonstrates a reduction in mat in dio after treatment with metformin.

thus it is crucial that the bone health of these patients be carefully considered especially in relation to diabetesissn print 0013-7227 issn online 1945-7170printed in usacopyright c 2017 endocrine societyreceived 28 march 2017. accepted 21 july 2017.first published online 2 august 2017abbreviations anova analysis of variance bmd bone mineral density dio diet- induced obesity hfd high-fat diet mat marrow adipose tissue ms mass spectrometry oso4 osmium tetroxide otu operational taxonomic unit pc phosphatidylcholine pcr polymerase chain reaction sd standard deviation sm sphingomyelin vat visceral adipose tissue wat white adipose tissue mct microcomputed tomography.doi endocrinology october 2017 158103369-33853369treatments.

no adverse effects were observed in our studies.diet and drug treatmentsfrom the age of wean mice were fed a high-fat diet hfd 60 kcal from fat d12492 research diets inc. new brunswick nj or chow control diet rmh 3000 prolabr isopror labdiets st. louis mo or tekland 2018 envigo madison wi from weening 3 weeks for 15 weeks.

p  0.0001 p  0.001 p  0.01 p  0.05. prism 6.02 software was used to compute all statistical calculations unless otherwise noted.resultsmetformin has minimal effects on body mass fat mass or lean mass in diomice were fed an hfd or chow for 15 weeks andtreated in the last 6 weeks with or without metformin.this diet regimen has been shown previously and herein confirmed to induce obesity and metabolic dys- function -supplemental fig.

