obesity is related to insulin resistance which will further induce the insulin release and rise in insulin levels.

the reduction of insulin levels will lessen the effect of insulin on the growth of nbpb at least e coli and s aur- eus and thus break the insulin promoted feedback cycle seen in and expected to control obesity.

rather members of butyrate-producing taxa of gut microbiome improve insulin sensitivity .the state of pre-diabetes is characterized by high insulin levels and it is also observed that the concentration of insulin in the por- tal circulation is greater compared to the peripheral circulation in non-diabetic and diabetic subjects .

metformin exerts anti-obesity effect via gut microbiome modulation in prediabetics a hypothesiskunal maniar  amal moideen  rajasri bhattacharyya  dibyajyoti banerjee a department of pharmacology post graduate institute of medical education  research chandigarh indiab department of experimental medicine  biotechnology post graduate institute of medical education  research chandigarh indiaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 20 february 2017accepted 1 june 2017keywords prediabetes insulin metformin microbiome obesitybutyrate-producing taxaa b s t r a c t prediabetic individuals are characterized by high levels of insulin an anabolic hormone having an impor- tant role in the maintenance of glucose homeostasis.

there are many studies postulating the mechanisms of the anti-obesity effect of metformin including improvement in insulin sensitivity and consequently a reduction in insulin levels.

increased insulin resistance will further cause a rise in insulin levels and accentuate the growth of nbpb thus resulting in a vicious cycle see .

the increase in the butyrate producing taxa in the gut will likely improve insulin sensitivityassociated with the prediabetes and thereby expected toreduce the insulin levels.

the increased butyrate present in the gut will then enter the circulation on account of its lipid solu- bility is likely to improve insulin sensitivity which in turn will reduce insulin levels and exert its anti-obesity effect in syner-k. maniar et al.

metformin has been associated with reduced insulin levels by improving insulin sensitivity .

the increased butyrate in the gut will then get absorbed in the circulation and improve insulin sensitivity  which in turn is expected to decrease insulin levels.

insulin is a well-recognized factor associated with obesity .

this high insulin induced growth of nbpb may conse- quently result in gut dysbosis which is often associated withchronic diseases such as obesity .

this shift of the microbiome towards nbpb may result in a state of gut dysbiosis typically associated with insulin resistance t2dm and obesity.

reduced insulin levels are shown to have a positive effect on the control of obesity.

.shen j obin ms zhao l. the gut microbiota obesity and insulin resistance.

