'arms race' dynamics ard in which abundant bacterial prey continuously evolve to escape infection by phages that in turn evolve new infection strategies observed between lytic phages and their bacterial prey lead to the selection of fitnesscostly bacterial defence mechan isms and phage counterdefence strategies box 2. this model selects for phages that have a wider infectivity range and for bacterial generalists with broad resistant phenotypes restriction-modification r-m and surface modification sm box 2 thereby it decreases bac terial diversity as resistant phenotypes become fixed and selective sweeps drive maladapted members to extinction fig.

the ktw hypothesis models the frequency-dependent viral infection of temporally abundant and active bacterial taxa allowing for high bacterial diversity.restriction-modification r-m. a bacterial defence system against invading foreign unmethylated dna for example from phages and plasmids.

two recent studies that combined experimental manipulation and the analysis of more than 2100 bacterial genomes pro vided evidence that high bacterial growth rates andsmall minimal bacterial doubling times correlate with increased prophage frequency535657 thus supporting the ptw model.

the maintenance of high levels of bacterial and phage diversity and high costs of nonspecific resistance to phage infection would enable fsd to predominate in the gut except during periods in which strong perturbations such as inflambox 2  bacterial defence mechanisms and bacteriophage counter-defence mechanismsto remain in an ecosystem bacterial and phage components constantly evolve and develop infection and evasion strategies.

in addition pamps arenature reviews  microbiologyvolume 15  july 2017  403reviews competitive exclusiona mechanism whereby two or more related species that are competing for the same resources cannot stably coexist in the same environment and must specialize.quorum sensinga system of bacteria-produced molecular stimuli and responses that coordinate bacterial gene expressionof genes that are involved in biofilm formation virulence and antibiotic resistance according to the local density of the bacterial population.gnotobiotic micegerm-free mice orantibiotic-treated mice that are colonized with predefined bacterial species or communities.recognized by tolllike receptors tlrs which can activate proinflammatory responses6469.

2 579-589 2008.this study identifies phage-encoded repressors and transcriptional regulators of bacterial metabolism that enable the survival of the bacterial host in unfavourable environmental conditions in marine systems.brussow h. canchaya c.  hardt w. d. phages and the evolution of bacterial pathogens from genomic rearrangements to lysogenic conversion.

these phages are mostly found integrated into bacterial cells as prophages and the main bacterial phyla that they target are the firmicutes bacteroidetes proteobacteria and actinobacteria.oxygen which enable the growth of both anaerobic and aerobic bacteria11.

the gut micro biota of healthy individuals is composed of six bacterial phyla the firmicutes bacteroidetes proteobacteria actinobacteria fusobacteria and verrucomicrobia which include more than 100 species that are further divided into 200 bacterial strains818 fig.

during lysogeny the phage genome integrates into the bacterial chromosome for example phage l and phage p2 or is maintained as a plasmid for example phage p1 and replicates with the bacterial host53.

phage infection causes a decrease in the initial bacterial prey which leaves an open ecological niche that other com petitive bacterial taxa can populate the cycle can then begin anew42.

in fsd there is local adaptation of predators and prey which leads to the development of bacterial specialists consequently bacterial diversity increases and is main tained by defence polymorphisms49.

by contrast fsd enables the localized co-evolution of bacteria and phages with the development of specialized bacterial resistance and narrow host range of phages as well as higher levels of bacterial diversity.

at high bacterial density and nutrient availability bacteria use more nonspecific defence mechanisms such as surface modification or r-m whereas at lower density and limited nutrient availability bacteria use more specific defence mechanisms that have lower fitness costs such as crispr-cas49128.the high bacteria and phage densities that are observed in the gut along with the high nutrient concentrations would suggest the prevalence of nonspecific bacterial defence mechanisms although crispr sequences are also common with more than 52000 spacer sequences identified in 124 individuals129.successful infectionunsuccessful infectionsurface modificationr-mcrisprabisieouter membranemasking proteinexopolysaccharidesabortive infection system abi system.

2016 80 745-763 and amended withpermission from american society for microbiology.402  july 2017  volume 15reviews matory diseases infections or xenobiotic exposure could selectively decrease bacterial abundance and increase nutrient availability for the remaining bacterial taxa which would temporarily shift the balance towards ard.

bacterial cells produce various molecules that can induce prophages resulting in a decrease in the abundance of specific bacterial taxa and the production of specific phages and alter bacteria-phage interactions.

