by contrast the probiotic escherichia coli nissle 1917 is resistant to lipocalin-2 and can thus outcompete the pathogen for iron .commensal bacteria develop complex ecological networks with other bacteria in the gut to acquire micronutrients.

gram- negative bacteria such as escherichia coli require less magnesium than gram-positive bacteria.

each species has unique response systems that result in specific micronutrient requirements genomic activity and cellular metabolism a. for instance vitamin a defi- ciency promotes the fitness of segmented filamentous bacteria while vitamin c and e deficienciesinhibit the abundance of bacteroides .

because dna methylation is essential for genome reg- ulation and protection in prokaryotes b12 deficiency in the gut may induce bacteria to move to another region of the gut environment where such metab- olites might be available - or shape their genomic activity to retain metabolic flex- ibility and survive in the gut a. consequently micronutrient deficiencies might dictate microbial-microbial as well as microbial-environmental interactions throughout the gut.

and others suggested that micronutrient defi- ciencies during the critical 1000-day win- dow in children result in persistent impaired maturation of the microbiota which could lead to diseases later in lifefigure 1. micronutrient deficiency as a modulator of gut microbial ecology.

in bacteria a number of micronutrients are substrates and cofactors for a vari- ety of physiological processes includ- ing dna synthesis and repair growth signal transduction transamination methyl transfer reactions decarboxyl- ation and extracellular processes such as electron transfer as well as the establishment of symbiotic associations within the gut .

bacteria obtain met- als and vitamins through endogenous biosynthetic pathways or by the use of transporter proteins when they have lost the de novo biosynthetic functions in their genomes .

bacteria also inhibit the expression of genes required for biosynthesis and tend to uptake micronutrients from the environment when they are available .

however there is little information known about bacterial genomic regulation and intes- tinal microbial ecosystem equilibrium when key micronutrients for physiologi- cal processes are insufficiently deliv- ered from either other bacteria or the gut environment.a recent study by hibberd et al.

responding effectively to stress allows bacteria to survive in otherwise unfriendly environments.

magnesium require- ments are higher for gram-positive than for gram-negative bacteria and are of relevance and importance in the physiol- ogy of bifidobacteria .

additionally evidence shows that the availability and accessi- bility of b12 imparts a fundamental con- tribution to b12-dependent methionine synthase in bacteria  a key compo- nent for the cofactor s-adenosylmethio- nine sam which is the main cellular carrier of methyl groups.

commensal bacteria might also develop cooperative mecha- nisms such as horizontal gene transfer biofilm formation bacteriocin produc- tion or quorum sensing to ensure the fitness of their own commu- nity.

flavin facilitates extracellular elec- tron transfer contributes to antioxidative defense in the gut and allows beneficial anaerobic bacteria such as faecalibac- terium prausnitzii to survive in nicheswhere an oxygen gradient exists e.g.

we also hypothesize that bacteria express highly potent bacteriocins that fend off other species or pathogens invading their niche and use their resources.

