microbial biotechnology published by john wiley  sons ltd and society for applied microbiology microbial biotechnology 10 50-53concluding remarksin summary we envisage the development of technolo- gies which will allow the manipulation of the crop micro- biome in situ.

microbial biotechnology published by john wiley  sons ltd and society for applied microbiology.this is an open access article under the terms of the license which permits use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.consistent unbiased overview limits the information on the fungal members of the phytomicrobiome.

application of technologies such as shotgun sequencing that can provide a comprehensive overview of the functional potential of the phytomicrobiome remains challenging given the microbiome sequences are masked by plant sequences resulting in extremely low coverage of the microbial metagenome from plant tissues.

technologies which can specifically enrich microbial dnarna from plant materials are needed.

key knowledge on the critical role played by the microbial community in the rhizosphere par- ticularly in nutrient acquisition and disease resistance has also improved.

but our ability to manipulate the microbial diversity for improved production is either limited to altering management practices i.e.

or through the addition of microbial inoculates.

the use of microbial inoculants has so far limited success in field conditions - mainly due to competi- tion with the indigenous microflora of soils.

for example signal molecules or their inhibitors could be used to specifically promote the activity of beneficial microbes to increase microbial mobilization of nutrients nitrogen and phosphorus and to defend against patho- gens and pests when needed synchronized supply with demand.

however this is a significant challenge given that the quantity of signal molecules in root exudates and microbial biofilms is extremely low and is difficult to charac- terize by available technology.

microbial biotechnology published by john wiley  sons ltd and society for applied microbiology microbialbiotechnology 10 50-5352 crystal ballmetabolomics will be needed to characterize signal mole- cules their diversity and specificity to harness these for improving farm yields and quality.in situ microbiome engineering mueller and sachs 2015 can be the choice of tool for harnessing the micro- biome for beneficial outcomes in agriculture and food industries.

for example it is predicted that in the eu a higher number of bio-pesticides will be sold com- pared to chemical pesticides by 2020. the agricultural and nutrient sector is a key area of development in microbial biotechnology along with health sector and will be an important driver of global economic growth and social and environmental sustainability.box 1 key steps towards successfui use of microbiome tools for food and nutrient securitya 2017 the authors.

if this is to be achieved both theoretical and tech- nological advancements are needed box 1 utilizing multidisciplinary approaches to integrate emerging tech- nologies omics 3d printing synthetic biology with more traditional approaches of microbial ecology plant eco- physiology and genetics.

microbial biotechnology published by john wiley  sons ltd and society for applied microbiology microbialbiotechnology 10 50-53

