the data were obtained from gelatine and barite samples taken from the spots with adhesive tape and from 1-mm-thick samples of paper trimmed from the margins of the print.

it is of basic and extreme importance for this sector to carry out research based on simulation of the interaction of fungi and bacteria with compounds like barite and gelatine in model samples and in particular to establish a causative relationship between halotolerant species and the formation of foxing stains on gelatine prints.acknowledgements this work was financed by the slovak vega agency project number 2010314 bprotecting our memories investiga- tion into the biodeterioration of photographic and cinematographic materials.we would like also to acknowledge dr. lavinia ciuffa acting curator of the photographic archive of american academy in rome for her availability and for proving us the opportunity to study these interesting prints.referencesaas ja paster bj stokes ln olsen i dewhirst fe 2005 defining the normal bacterial flora of the oral cavity.

only following an initial ob- servation of the samples using sem in vp mode at 20 kv some of the samples were coated in gold using a baltec sputter coater and then subjected to further analysis in high vacuum hv mode.

samples were analyzed by eds after sem observations.sem images of the samples are shown in fig.

the eds measurements were taken at several points across the samples where possible spotting of different components was distin- guishable by sem-bsd imaging gelatine baryta layer pre- cipitated minerals and particles paper fibers.

the gelatine samples obtained from the stains of inv.

data were obtained from gelatine and barite samples taken from the spots with adhesive tape and analyzed by eds after sem observations.

15438. the data were obtained from gelatine and barite samples taken from the spots with adhesive tape.

a gelatin print is generally constituted by i a layer of gelatine where the image is created with emulsified silver salt a photosen- sitive substance finely dispersed in gelatine and ii a primary paper support covered with a layer of barium sul- fate baryta that makes the paper as smooth as possible and suitable for receiving the emulsion.

gelatine for photographic use is primarily alkaline-processed gelatine espe- cially for emulsion preparation.

in the initial phase of the study a sudden and prolonged phase of alteration of temperature and humidity conditions was recorded in the photo library located at the street level of the storage building t  from 22 to 18 degc rh  55 to 67. the prints had been long retained within metallic draw- er units and showed numerous small spots on surface associ-ated with the development of a fungal mycelium network.the biological samples were collected by the use of an adhesive tape fungi tapetm did milan italy with little adhesive strength that allowed to capture the microorganisms with no damage of the photograph.

the samples were subse- quently divided to different portions to be utilized for micro- biological cultivation sem observation and dna and rna extraction.adhesive tape strip subsamples were immersed in different cultivation media malt extract agar mea and dichloran- glycerol dg18 both from oxoid basingstoke uk for fungi and biologtm universal growth agar rigel s.r.l.

the resulting sequences were directly compared with those in genbank using blast program  and were subsequently deposited in genbank under the accession numbers ku363957-ku363960.optical microscopy and sem-eds analysisadhesive tape samples and thin sections obtained by conser- vators from the edge of the prints were analyzed using a var- iable pressure sem instrument evo50 carl-zeiss electron microscopy group fitted with a detector for electron backscattered diffraction bsd.

sputtering was performed under an ar- gon gas flow at a working distance of 50 mm at 0.05 mbar anda current of 40 ma for 60 s so as to create a film of gold of about 15 nm thickness.chemical characterization of the inorganic constituents of the samples was performed by means of electron dispersive spectroscopy eds.

one-way analysis of vari- ance anova was used when comparing the different com- ponents present in the samples and the significance of the differences was tested at 95 confidence.

