with this review we discuss the role of airway microbiome diversity in three pediatric diseases cystic fibrosis asthma and chronic lung disease of prematurity and point to areas where further study is needed to take full advantage of microbiome information in developing approaches to improve patient outcomes associated with these diseases.cystic fibrosisthe airway microbiome in children with cystic fibrosis were the first to capitalize on sequencing ap- proaches to characterize microbiome diversity in cystic fibrosis pa- tients.

the establishment of sequencing as a viable method to identify the diversity of microbes within the cystic fibrosis airway provided an opportunity for hypothesis generation.subsequent studies of the cystic fibrosis lung microbiome have also identified traditionally considered pathogens specifically pseudomonas spp.

microbial diversity within the airway microbiome in chronic pediatric lung diseasesandrea hahn stephanie warnken marcos perez-losada robert j. freishtatkeith a. crandalla division of infectious diseases children's national health system cnhs washington d.c. 20010 usab department of pediatrics george washington university gwu school of medicine and health sciences smhs washington d.c. 20052 usac computational biology institute milken institute school of public health gwu washington d.c. 20052 usad cibio-inbio universidade do porto campus agrario de vairao vairao 4485-661 portugale division of emergency medicine cnhs washington d.c. 20010 usaa r t i c l e i n f o keywords microbiome asthma cystic fibrosis pediatricstranslational medicinea b s t r a c t the study of the airway microbiome in children is an area of emerging research especially in relation to the role microbial diversity may play in acute and chronic inflammation.

that being said the relationships found between airway microbial di- versity and asthma severity in adults may not hold true in pediatric cases therefore it should also be examined in pediatric cases of asthma.effects of asthma treatments on the airway microbiomethe effect of current asthma treatments such as corticosteroids on the airway microbiota remains unclear more study needs to be done to better understand how traditional asthma treatments affect the com- position of the airway microbiota.

furthermore characterizing the role of the lung microbiome in chronic airway diseases is important to allow for the development of improved approaches in the treatment of these conditions.three such chronic airway diseases are cystic fibrosis asthma and chronic lung disease of prematurity.

similar to the findings in persons with cystic fibrosis antibiotic use alters the airway microbiome which may further affect asthma development and severity  .lastly the airway microbiome may also provide insight into thepost-natal problems faced by premature infants.

may increase the risk for bpd likely due to its stimulation of a pro-inflammatory response.airway microbiome changes due to prematurity may modulate the airway inflammatory response to viral infections past the neonatal period.commonalitiesin cystic fibrosis asthma and bpd studies of the airway micro- biome have suggested that children with these chronic lung diseases might have different microbial communities than their healthy coun- terparts.

on the composition of the airway microbiome in cystic fibrosis also found that the relative abundance of pseudomonas spp.

dominated samples all showing significant decreases in diversity compared to samples not dominated by those pathogens p  0.001. furthermore loss of lung function specifically fev1 was also asso- ciated with decreasing diversity p  0.05.these studies thus suggest that high inter-individual variability exists in the airway microbiome in both pediatric and adult patients and pathogen dominance effectively drives decreasing diversity no matter what the age of the patient.

decreasing microbial diversity in cystic fibrosis has also been associated with age and disease progression again providing opportunities for further research.moraxella spp.

2014. longevity of patients with cystic fibrosis in 2000 to 2010 and beyond survival analysis of the cystic fibrosis foundation patient registry.

future studies that explore the relationship between community diversity and advancing lung disease may establish whether maintaining diverse communities might improve health and or whether more targeted anti-microbial therapy might positively im- pact the patient clinical course .asthmarole of the airway microbiome on the development of asthmathe study by challenged the traditional thought that the lower airways were sterile and found that the lower airway microbiome differed between asthmatics and controls.

three such pediatric airway diseases include cystic fibrosis asthma and chronic lung disease of prematurity.

corresponding author at division of infectious diseases children's national health system cnhs washington d.c. 20010 usa.e-mail address a. hahn.r15e6ce7i-v1e3d489jcun2e021071e7lsreveiceerivbe.dv.inalrlerviigshetdsfroersmerv2e2d.september 2017 accepted 7 december 2017in cystic fibrosis the introduction of sequencing to identify bacteria beyond standard culture based techniques led to the discovery of much more complex communities within the airway  .

using 16s rrna ngs see  .the airway microbiome during pulmonary exacerbationas alluded to above several studies built upon the capabilities of sequencing including next generation sequencing ngs to look at a particular area of interest within cystic fibrosis disease pulmonary exacerbations.

