The concentration of 8 9-DHFA was higher when FAwas added than the negative control dataTable 2 FA concentrations inhibiting mycelium growth by 50 IC50 for fungal speciesa Strains were obtained from Dr. Charles M. Kenerly Department of Plant Pathology and Microbiology Texas AM University CMK Dr. Veronica Ancona Texas AM University-Kingsville Citrus Center VA the Department of Plant Pathology and Microbiology Texas AM University PLPM or from soil collected in Baton Rouge LA Tallassee Al and Weslaco TXTable 3Concentrations of detoxification products of fusaric acid by fungal species as analyzed by HPLCConcentrations were expressed in mgml times in the parentheses refer to the compounds elution times during HPLC analysis of the culture filtrate FA fusaric acid 9-HOFA 9-hydroxyfusaric acid also known as fusarinolic acid 8-HOFA 8-hydroxyfusaric acid FOH fusarinol 9 10-DHFA 9 10- dehydrofusaric acida 8-HOFA was produced in cultures of Aspergillus tubingensis containing 200 mgml exogenous FAb The sum of the FA derivative concentrations produced by Fusarium oxysporum CA9 was greater than the concentration of FA added The sum of the FA derivative concentrations produced by Schizophyllum commune was less than the concentration of FA addednot shown.

The first derivatives detected in FA producing Fusarium cultures were 9-hydroxyfusaric acid 9-HOFA Fig.

The six fungal isolates were identified by microscopic observation of reproduc- tive structures and sequencing of the ITS beta-tubulin calmod- ulin elongation factor or phosphate permease genes as Aspergillus flavus Aspergillus terreus Fusarium oxysporum Penicillium chrysogenum Talaromyces pinophilus and Rhizopus microsporus GenBank accession numbers MF197729-MF197739.FA Resistance of Bacterial Strains Highly resistant strains with MIC values greater than 300 mgml of FA 9 in total were found only in species of Burkholderia Pseudomonas and Stenotrophomonas which are Gram-negative bacilli Table .

The strains with the highest IC50 values were species of Fusarium or saprophyticbeneficial microorganisms that are ubiquitously found in soil environments.Unlike the bacteria and the yeast screened for this work various derivatizations of FA by filamentous fungi were ob- served for both the soil and laboratory isolates.

The availability of a complete genome sequence for this isolate   would be useful for discovery of genes that encode for these enzymes.Potential dissemination of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp.

The discovery of resistance mechanisms that detoxify FA could provide methods for the production of transgenic cotton cultivars with resistance to Fusarium wilt or be used to improve efficacy of biocontrol agents.

The results presented here provide numer- ous targets for gene discovery in several fungal species in- cluding those with genome sequences available.Acknowledgements We thank Cotton Incorporated for their generous support of this research and Stephanie Sullivan for HPLC analyses.ReferencesBacon CW Hinton DM Porter JK Glenn AE Kuldau G 2004 Fusaric acid a Fusarium verticillioides metabolite antagonistic to the endo- phytic biocontrol bacterium Bacillus mojavensis.

The Cotton Foundation Cordova pp 117-146Liu S Dai H Orfali RS Lin W Liu Z Proksch P 2016b New fusaric acid derivatives from the endophytic fungus Fusarium oxysporum and their phytotoxicity to barley leaves.

The Journal of Antibiotics 29 1237-1240Matsumoto K Barbosa ML Souza LAC Teixeira JB 1995 Race 1 Fusarium wilt tolerance on banana plants selected by fusaric acid.

For Fusarium oxysporum the Fusarium oxysporum specific primer pairs EF-1A and EF1885R PHO48F and PHO2034 BT100F and BT1828Rwere used to amplify and sequence the elongation factor gene the phosphate permease gene and beta tubulin BT gene respectively Ortiz et al.

