for example are high-fat diet and obesity linked to a higher percentage of cd36 tu- mor cells in cancer patients in addition to fatty acids do other adipokines   secreted by adipocytes stim- ulate cd36 mics can cd36 serve as a universal marker for mics in other cancer types interestingly cd36 is associated with poor clinical outcome in luminal a breast cancer but not in other breast cancer sub-types suggesting a potential context-dependent role of cd36 in pro- moting metastasis.while many details remain to be investi- gated the identification of cd36 as a mic marker by pascual and colleagues   expands our knowledge of lipid metabolism in cancer progression and adds a promising new target for the development of novel anti-metastasis therapeutics.references .

with their initial identification of a broad range of biosynthetic gene clusters in the micro- biome of the gastrointestinal gi tract in 2014 they ushered in an era where230 cell metabolism 25 february 7 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc.cell metabolismpreviewsfigure 1. gi microbiota encode biosynthetic pathways capable of creating molecules that act on human targets the human gastrointestinal gi microbiota left encode nonribosomal peptide synthetase nrps biosynthetic clusters that when expressed in vitro in common laboratory bacteria escherichia coli bacillus subtilis create novel metabolites.

because most gi bacteria are anaerobic and notoriously uncooperative to both in vitro culturing and genetic manipulation chose 14 firmicutes nrps clusters and expressed them either in escherichia coli or bacillus subtilis two ''domesticated'' laboratory strains.remarkably when heterologously ex- pressed in this manner half of the clusters tested produced novel compounds .

finally they demonstrate that the nrps clusters examined are present in 90 of the subjects who contributed samples to hu- man gi metagenomic databases and by rna-sequencing data that these clus- ters are transcribed in conditions of gut colonization.perhaps a new set of koch's postulates could be used for such work.

furthermore what conditions lead to the expression of these clusters and do the initiating signals come from other bacteria or from the host  what other chemicals both complex and simple are the multitudeswithin us able to make are there new drugs to be foundsignificantly deepen our understanding of the types of metabolites that can be made by the human gi microbiota and how they are capable of inhibiting human proteins.

would one expect to see such compounds in mammalian circulation or in the intestinal milieu did such compounds evolve to act on human targets or on the complex and competitive mixture of other bac- teria in the gi  our anthropocen- tric minds would surely believe that we are the targets in part because the clus- ters are nearly universally observed in commensal feces and not in related bacte- ria outside the body.

future questions include what other chemicals are manufactured by our microbiota red what signals the mi- crobiota to create these compounds blue and what other human and bacterial targets do the compounds hit greendeep-sequencing reads are employed to predict new molecules  .

now they have extended their initial discoveries with a report on specific metabolites made by the multitudes within us that appear capable of inhibiting human proteins.as described in a recent issue of cell focus on 47 bio- synthetic gene clusters identified in the gi microbiome using bioinformatics.

indeed identify 32 compounds generated from the seven successful nrps clusters and show that 28 of them are novel.

since lipid b-oxidation is the most energetically effi- cient way to generate atps to satisfy the energy needs of cancer cells lipid meta- bolism is perhaps particularly crucial for the survival of disseminated tumor cells in a new microenvironment.

in this century our attention is turning to the molecules within us those made by our commensalmicrobiota and how mammalian-micro- bial symbiosis has driven the evolution of new chemistry.fischbach and colleagues have been leaders in this new realm.

the team predicted these clusters would encode nonribosomal peptide synthetases nrpss quirky molecular factories that assemble some of microbiology's most complex and effective natural products.

this is important because it means that bacteria that we culture daily in the laboratory can be coaxed into revealing the synthetic capabilities of non-native clusters.

but mass action in the gi suggests that our tissues are merely the vessel that holds microbial multitudes largely concerned with each other and the competition for limiting resources  .

indeed adi- pocytes have been shown to act as an en- ergy source of fatty acids to promote ovarian cancer metastasis to the omen- tum .

