the y-axis shows the relative frequency in two scales left in green m01 and purple m02 the relative frequency scales for m. hyopneumoniae right in red m01 and blue m02 the relative frequency scale for the remaining species.should be related to the normal flora from lungs and also to the secondary microorganisms that are able to invade the tract following m. hyopneumoniae infection.discussionthe bacterial abundance of samples from swine lungs with macroscopic signals suggestive of enzootic pneumonia m01 and from swine lungs without signals of infection m02 was accessed by the shotgun metagenome approach.because of the difficulties in obtaining large quantities of dna from individual lungs we chose to prepare the dna samples by pooling materials from 20 different animals.

antibody responses of swine following infec- tion with mycoplasma hyopneumoniae m. hyorhinis m. hyosynoviae and m. flocculare.

considering the importance of the swine enzo- otic pneumonia and the limited knowledge about the bacterial species that inhabit the swine respi- ratory tract we have performed a total dna metagenomic analysis from lungs of pigs in a field condition with suggestive signals of enzootic pneumonia and without any infection signals.materials and methodssamples were collected in a swine slaughterhouse with official sanitary inspection from south- ern brazil 2953'12s 5016'11w.

analysis of community composition in lungs and trachea from pneumonic swine's and carrier swine's confirmed the high prevalence of m. hyopneumoniae.

m. hyopneumoniae is distributed world-wide in the swine herds and the infection by m. hyopneumoniae is com- monly associated with immunostimulation and immunosuppression  with a complex inter- action network delineating the persistence of this bacterium in the field.study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.other mycoplasmas found in porcine respiratory system include the mycoplasma hyorhinis and mycoplasma flocculare.

m. flocculare is a non pathogenic species from swine lungs  with genome composition closer to m. hyopneu- moniae genome .

m. hyorhinis is related to polyserositis and arthritis  whereas m. flocculare which is closely related to m. hyopneumoniae based on a 16s rrna sequence and whole genome comparison  can adhere to cilia but no damage and disease has been associ- ated with this species  .

the y-axes show the abundance of reads from each of the identified families.in  the p-values of the ratio of mapped reads between the samples shows five species m. hyopneumoniae m. flocculare m. hyorhinis pasteurella multocida and weeksella virosa whose statistical significance has remained relatively intact after pooling for an a  0.10.the number of assigned reads to taxa is summarized in  which shows that the reads distribution in the carrier lungs m02 is more uniformly distributed than in enzootic pneu- monic lungs m01.

therefore reads matched to m. hyopneumoniae represent 95 of the enzootic pneumonic lungs and 47 of the carrier lungs' metagenomes while m. flocculare rep- resents 0.6 of the enzootic pneumonic lungs' and 2 of the carrier lungs' metagenomes.earlier m. hyopneumoniae infection by vertical transmission from sow to piglet during lac- tation is suggested as the main transmission factor in piglets .

the most common microbial families identified from pneumonic swine's lungs were mycoplasmataceae flavobacteria- ceae and pasteurellaceae whereas in the carrier swine's lungs the most common families were mycoplasmataceae bradyrhizobiaceae and flavobacteriaceae.

using this approach we have concluded that m. hyopneumoniae is the most common species in the metagenomic dna from swine's lungs.

flocculare did not appear as a lung bacterium species in our first analysis mg-rast although numerous studies showed m. flocculare presence in swine lungs .

several management and environmental fac- tors have been shown to contribute to swine enzootic pneumonia such as low general herd health poor disease prevention high pen stocking density mixing pigs of different origin and differences in the route of infection  .following contraction of enzootic pneumonia disease an adequate treatment can promote the clearance of lung lesions but m. hyopneumoniae may remain in the respiratory tract and the pigs are then called 'carriers'.

the other round-assay was tested with specific primer pairs to the gene mhp74480235 which encoded for myo-inositol 2-dehydrogenase that is an exclusive gene of m. hyopneumoniae among the mycoplasmas 5'-cgccaaaagccttagaagc-3' and 5'-caataaacccttgtgcccg-3'.these essays were performed to provide insights about the m. hyopneumoniae and other bacte- rial presences in the dna samples prior to total sequencing.dna shotgun metagenomic libraries of each pool m01 and m02 were prepared by follow- ing the instructions from the rapid library preparation method manual--gs flx titanium series 454-roche.

the n-level option mapping available in the mg workflow enabled us to detect that m. hyop- neumoniae and m. flocculare shared approximately 75 of the found high quality alignments .

