a fecal ph and the level of fecal d and l lactates mmoll b the amount of fecal short chain fatty acids acetate propionate butyrate mmoll c fecal bacteria per gram d fecal microbiota diversity shannon index e distribution of principal bacterial phyla f relative abundance of bacterial families in the feces.

2016.it may now be instructive to test whether the microbiota coming from sbs patients that are in demand of energy because of their malabsorption have greater morphogenic potential than microbiota coming from subjects with less malabsorption.several studies describe an increase in fasting plasma glp- 1 levels in sbs patients with a jejuno-colonic anastomosis or in resected rats jeppesen et al.

all rats were 9 weeks old when sacrificed.composition of fecal microbiota from sbs patients and h-sbs gf and cv ratsdna extraction from fecestotal dna was extracted from aliquots of 200-250 mg of fecal samples as described previously mayeur et al.

estimates of otu diversity were calculated according to the shannon and simpson indices.fermentative activity analyses of fecal microbiota from sbs patients and h-sbs gf and cv ratsthe concentrations of short-chain fatty acids acetate propionate and butyrate in the fecal content were analyzed after water extraction of acidified samples using gas-liquid chromatography nelson 1020 perkin-elmer st. quentin en yvelines france as described previously lan et al.

thus the microbiota ecosystem changed profoundly during the 2 days following its arrival into a new digestive environment reflecting an adaptive phase whereas the composition of the sbs-h microbiota seemed to stabilize from d3 to d30 figure 3. all measured parameters fecal lactates scfa levels microbiota composition ph-value did not change between d3 and d30 data not shown.

we assessed the fermentative activity and microbial composition in rats harboring an sbs-derived microbiota sbs-h 1 d1 2 d2 and 30 days d30 after gavage figures 2 3. the amount of total bacteria reached 109-1010 bacteriag of feces similar to the load of the inoculum 1010 indicating proper colonization of the gf rats by the sbs patient microbiota supplemental figure 2. by d30 the fecal ph increased from 4 at hi to 7.5 whereas total fecal lactates decreased from 150 mmoll at hi to 2 mmoll figure 2a.

some sbs patients develop severe symptomatic d-lactic acidosis with metabolic acidosis and neurological disorders kowlgi and chhabra 2015. the d- acidosis is observed only in some patients with a large small bowel resection with a part of the colon in continuity and someabbreviations sbs short bowel syndrome scfas short chain fatty acids aqp- 3 aquaporin 3 sglt-1 sodium-glucose co-transporter 1 pept1 proton-coupled oligopeptide transporter mct1 monocarboxylate transporter 1 smct1 sodium- coupled monocarboxylate transporter 1 nhe3 na h exchanger 3.cases are also described in patients with bypass narula et al.

patients with jejuno-colonic anastomosis were stratified according to the presence of lactate in their feces and we observe that the lactate-producing bacteria were predominant in the sub-group of patients accumulating fecal lactate.

it may be informative to transfer a microbiota coming from different sub-groups such as nla or la or from patients suffering from other malabsorptive syndromes after different types of surgeries.there is a close relationship between the specific composition of sbs microbiota and post-surgery outcome and adaptation.

2016 and finally iii modification of the fecal microbiota of sbs patients characterized by the high prevalence of lactobacillus sub- dominance of bacteroidetes major depletion of clostridium coccoides and the absence of clostridium leptum joly et al.

the sbs-microbiota is actively involved in accumulation of fecal lactate susceptibility to d-acidosis and post-resection adaptation.first the accumulation of lactate in feces is dictated by the abundance of lactate producing bacteria in microbiota of patients.

the specific composition and fermentative activity of the microbiota from sbs patients result from the luminal constraints due to the extended resection of the small intestine.the fecal transfer illustrates the adaptability of a specific ecosystem in its environment.

2015. based on fecal transfer experiments we propose that the sbs- microbiota carries signals that contribute to the morphological and functional adaptations described in the remnant colon of patients.

2013. the hypersensitivity to colonic distension of ibs patients can be transferred to rats through their fecal microbiota.

2010. drastic changes in fecal and mucosa-associated microbiota in adult patients with short bowel syndrome.

