the researchers found that those in the naive group roughly doubled the number of words they could recall remembering up to60 from a list of 72 -- nearly matching the performance of some athletes.in the fmri scans changes in brain connectivity patterns in the naive group beforeand after training looked similar to the differences between untrained volunteers and memory champions.connections grew stronger between key areas of the cortex involved in learning memory processing and the linking of new and old knowledge.neuron 93 1227-1235 2017 oceanographyclimate putting stress on oceansnearly all of the world's oceans are already affected by climate change.stephanie henson at the national oceanography centre in southampton uk and her colleagues used climate models toanalyse trends in sea-surface temperature ph oxygen levels and primary production a measure of food availability for marine ecosystems between 1860 and 2005 and to predict changes until 2100. they found that 99 of earth's oceans are experiencing decreased ph conditions that exceed the range of natural variability.

the models predicted that in the next 15 years 55 of oceans will be affected by at least one other climate-driven factor.by 2050 this proportion is likely to increase to 86 under the high 'business-as-usual' emissions scenario.in the medium emissions scenario only one-third of the oceans will be affected by multiple factors by 2030.this would give many marine ecosystems an extra 20 years to adapt to climate change.nature commun.

8 14682 2017 evolutionbeetles repeatedly evolved mimicryover the course of many millions of years members of one beetle family have evolved to impersonate army ants at least a dozen separatetimes adding to evidence that evolution is more predictable than once thought.several species of rove beetle staphylinidae pictured mimic the appearance odour and behaviour of particular army ant species in order toinfiltrate ant colonies and eat the ants' young.

2017 microbiomeyeast worsens gut disorderyeast in the gut boosts levels of uric acid which damages the intestinal wall and worsens bowel inflammation in mice.gut bacteria are known to influence intestinal disease but the role of gut fungi -- such as the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae pictured -- has not been well studied.

the team found that the yeast increased theintestinal wall's degradation of molecules called purines leading to higher uric acid levels.

usa2017 neurosciencesuper memory skills gainedwith the right training people can improve their memory almost to the level of the world's top-ranked memory athletes -- and the effect can be seen in brain scans.memory athletes worldwide compete to memorize hundreds of words or other information in minutes.

martin dresler at radboud university medical centre in nijmegen the netherlands and his colleagues used functional magnetic resonance imaging fmri to scan the brains of 23 of the top 50 athletes and compared the scans with those of untrained 'naive' people.

joseph parker at columbia university in new york and munetoshi maruyama at the kyushu university museum in fukuoka japan sequenced dna from 58 rove beetle species -- including 37 that disguise themselves as various army ants -- from aroundthe world.

9 eaaf9044 2017 climate changearctic set for rainy futuremore rain than snow is likely to fall in the arctic by the end of the century owing to global warming.at present rain accounts for about 35 of arcticprecipitation.

in a scenario of moderate greenhouse-gas emissions rain will makeup roughly 40 of this total whereas if emissions are high this number will be nearer 60.nature clim.

the team then used a technique popular among memory athletes to train the naive control group daily over 40 days.

the researchers analysed this along with published beetle sequence data and found that army- ant mimicry has evolvedindependently between 12 and 15 times in rove beetles all descended from a common ancestor that lived more than 100 million years ago.the extensive time period over which the different beetle species evolved these similar traits raises questions about the idea that evolution is strongly contingent on chance events the authors say.curr.

mice that were given the yeast produced moreuric acid and had more gut inflammation than untreated animals did.

treating the animals with allopurinol an inhibitor of purine metabolism eased the colitis.in serum samples from healthy humans elevated uric acid levels correlated with greater numbers of antibodies against s. cerevisiae.

june round and her colleagues at the university of utah in salt lake city fed mice withs.

