we propose that anti-tlr4 interventions must be designed with caution given the balance between the protective and destructive roles of tlr signaling in response to microbiota and associated immunopathologies.keywords microbiota inflammation toll-like receptors innate immunity immune subversion immune dysregulation atherosclerosisintroductionmany inflammatory conditions and immunological disorders have been recently linked to the microbiota .

as might be expected changes in the microbiota specific to a particular anatomic location have been associated with inflammatory dis- eases of that area as well as distant tissues or organs.association of microbiota with local inflammationseveral studies have linked ibd with dysbiosis of the gut micro- biota characterized by decreases in bifidobacterium clostridium and faecalibacterium prausnitzii and increases in ruminococcus gnavus and adherent-invasive escherichia coli  -.

not only was dysbiosis of the gut microbiota associated with ibd but distinct shifts in the gut microbiota and a decrease in alpha diversity were also shown to distinguish ileal vs. colonic crohn's disease .

there also is sig- nificant enrichment of actinobacteria bacteroidetes firmicutes proteobacteria porphyromonas and treponema in the uterine microbiota of individuals with endometrial cancer .association of microbiota with systemic inflammation at sites distant from infectionchanges in the gut microflora have also been associated with metabolic and inflammatory conditions distant from infection including obesity diabetes and autoimmune diseases.

 and department of integrative physiology and pathobiology tufts university school of medicine boston ma usaedited bykuldeep dhama indian veterinary researchinstitute indiareviewed byhafiz m. n. iqbal monterrey institute of technology and higher education mexicosunil joshi old dominion university usaashok munjal barkatullah university indiacorrespondence caroline attardo genco specialty section this article was submitted to microbial immunologya section of the journal frontiers in immunologyreceived 15 december 2016accepted 21 february 2017published 13 march 2017citation kramer cd and genco ca 2017 microbiota immune subversion and chronic inflammation.front.

in this review we summarize recent studies demonstrating the role of the microbiota in chronic inflammatory diseases and discuss how specific microorganisms subvert or inhibit protective signaling normally induced by toll-like receptors tlrs.

studies in humans have documented that both shifts in the microbiota dysbiosis and specific microorganisms are associated with these immunological disorders -.

the most well-studied microbial dysbiosis is that of the gut microbiota which is associated with inflammatory bowel diseases ibd and colorectal cancer -.

dysbiosisoftheoralmicrobiotahasbeenassociatedwith oral squamous cell carcinoma oscc and dysbiosis of the lung microbiota has been associated with cystic fibrosis cf -.

however gut microbiota dysbiosis has also been associated with non-intestinal diseases including obesity type 1 diabetes t1d rheumatoid arthritis ra and atherosclerosis  .

likewise dysbiosis of the oral microbiota has been associated with diseases occurring outside of the oral cavity such as lung and pancreatic cancers as well as atherosclerosis and ra -.in addition to dysbiosis the presence of specific microor- ganisms has also been associated with cancer atherosclerosis autoimmune disorders and ra -.

indeed much of the experimental evidence aimed at defining mechanistic links between the microbiota and systemic inflammatory conditions has focused on metabolic and immunological pathways induced by specific microorganisms.

in the few years since the healthy baseline was established a number of reports have defined altered microbiota that may contribute to disease.

a common finding among studies investigating dysbiosis of the microbiota was a decrease in alpha diversity in diseased vs. healthy states -.

significant phy- logenetic differences were found between patients who respond to treatment for ulcerative colitis vs. those who do not respond to treatment .many cancers have now been linked to dysbiosis of the local microbiota.

