more studies are necessary to confirm these findings however the potent immunomodulatory effects of the gut microbiota on both the mucosal and systemic immune system highlights potential mechanisms through which the gut microbiota may influence brain function and behavior.metabolitesmetabolites derived from both the digestion and microbial fer- mentation of dietary and nutritional components may have a sig- nificant effect on brain processes and immune responses.

given the complex network of communica- tion between the gut microbiota and brain and the exchange of information across the gut-brain axis these microorganisms may also influence brain chemistry and behavior.

our discussion below highlights several of these key communication and neurobiological pathways including through the vagus nerve cell wall metabolites and neurotransmitters and brain neu- rotrophic factors which collectively may help to elucidate the effects of the microbiota on homeostasis and complex cns disorders.vagus nervethe vagus or tenth x cranial nerve which conveys efferent and afferent sensory information between the periphery and the cns constitutes a direct link from the gut to the brain  .

thus one proposed mechanism through which bacteria may be influencing brain chemistry is through regulation of the gaba system.serotoninserotonin is also a monoamine neurotransmitter implicated in the regulation of virtually all brain functions and modulates a num- ber of physiological processes such as mood sleep pain aggression and sexual behavior.

this pioneering study suggests that con- sumption of a probiotic fermented dairy product may be associated with modulations of brain regions concerned with the central pro- cessing of afferent signals from the gut and brain regions involved in emotional reactivity.although the precise mechanisms-of-action remain unknownconsiderable data supports the possibility that probiotics confer health benefits .

further l. rhamnosus is able to modulate the central expres- sion of gaba receptors in key cns brain regions in mice and there- fore may have beneficial effects in the treatment of depression and anxiety.

oral antibiotics given to specific pathogen free mice and colonization of gf balbc mice with nih swiss mice have been shown to increase exploratory behavior with increased bdnf expression as well .

for example when balb c mice were inoculated from nih swiss mice they increased exploratory behavior whereas nih swiss mice inoculated with balbc microbes had reduced exploratory behavior  .

while c. rodentium and c. jejuni may have different effects on anxiety-like behaviors these findings suggest that infectioninflammation may trigger bacteria to be pathogenic.

future research in this area is promising and may help to advance our understanding of for whom and under what condi- tions probiotics may be used to treat and possibly prevent neu- ropsychiatric disorders.antibioticsantibiotics also called antibacterials are used in the treatment and prevention of bacterial infections and are an essential compo- nent of our microbial defenses .

future work in this area may help to elucidate key interoceptive connections in human physiology and may also result in the advancement of state-of-the-art approaches for cns and brain-based disorders.

considering that short-term sleep depriva- tion has also been shown to induce slight changes in gut microbial communities  this may suggest unique behavioral pathways through which alterations in the gut micro- biota may influence human health.fundingthis research did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in the public commercial or not-for-profit sectors.references .

the emergence of a microbiota-gut-brain axis to describe the complex networks and relationship between the gastrointestinal microbiota and host reflects the major influence this environment may have in brain health and disorders of the central nervous system cns.

elucidating the pathways through which the gut and brain interact and the biological mechanisms involved may help to advance integrative approaches to both gi and cns disorders.key communication pathways and neurobiological mechanismsevidence from across the fields of neuroscience gastroenterol- ogy and microbiology have supported a modulatory role of gut microorganisms in various metabolic gi and neurological diseases .

thus exploring the role of vagal afferent pathways in mediating cross-talk between the gut microbiota and brain may prove useful in developing ther- apeutic interventions for behavioral disorders.cell wall components and immune responsesbacteria have a peptidoglycan cell wall that activates both the innate and adaptive arms of the host mucosal immune system.the innate immune response is primarily stimulated by the recog- nition of these pro-inflammatory microbial constituents generally known as pathogen-associated molecular patterns pamps.

