it remains to be determined whether agingper se independent of any external influences alters the microbiota.diet looms large as a major influence on the microbiota throughout all phases of life and is undoubtedly a major confounder in studies of the gut microbiota in disease .

indeed there are several resonances between microbiota interactions with the liver and those with the cen- tral nervous system sibo an abnormal microbiota impaired gut barrier function a pro-inflammatory state and the appear- ance in the systemic circulation of neuroactive molecules gen- erated by bacterial metabolism are postulated to play impor- tant roles in the actual pathogenesis of a number of common liver diseases  .the gut microbiome and the development of the central nervous systemthe reader will not be surprised to learn that the gut microbiome and the host immune response play important roles in the development and maturation of the little brain the enteric nervous system ens .

that antibiot- ic administration in early life can not only profoundly impact on the microbiota but also predispose to the development of inflammatory and metabolic disorders later in life has been well demonstrated in relation to obesity  .the gut microbiota in neurodegenerative disorders--the theorythough it must be emphasized that the overwhelming major- ity of the supportive evidence comes from animal models a hypothesis has emerged to link gut microbes to a number of neurodegenerative disorders ranging from parkinson's disease pd and alzheimer's disease ad to multiple sclerosis and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

interactions between the microbiota and diet may also be beneficial and may for instance contribute to the benefits of pomegranates  and grape seed polyphenols  in ad.the aforementioned hypothesis relating to the role of the gut microbiota in neurodegenerative disease has been largelybased on observations in animal models.

in this concept an abnormal microbiota or perhaps an aberrant response to a normal microbiota generates an inflammatory response that results in the release of cytokines  that then results in neuro-inflammation.

curr neurol neurosci rep 2017 17 94 httpsdoi.org10.1007s11910-017-0802-6microbiota-brain-gut axis and neurodegenerative diseaseseamonn m. m. quigley1published online 17 october 2017 springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstractpurpose of review the purposes of this review were as fol- lows first to provide an overview of the gut microbiota and its interactions with the gut and the central nervous system the microbiota-gut-brain axis in health second to review the relevance of this axis to the pathogenesis of neurodegen- erative diseases such as parkinson's disease and finally to assess the potential for microbiota-targeted therapies.recent findings work on animal models has established the microbiota-gut-brain axis as a real phenomenon to date the evidence for its operation in man has been limited and has been confronted by considerable logistical challenges.

animal and translational models have incriminated a dis- turbed gut microbiota in a number of cns disorders includ- ing parkinson's disease data from human studies is scanty.

while a theoretical basis can be developed for the use of microbiota-directed therapies in neurodegenerative disorders support is yet to come from high-quality clinical trials.summary in theory a role for the microbiota-gut-brain axis is highly plausible clinical confirmation is awaited.keywords microbiota .

fecal microbiota transplantationthis article is part of the topical collection on genetics eamonn m. m. quigley 1 lynda k and david m underwood center for digestive disorders division of gastroenterology and hepatology houston methodist hospital and weill cornell medical college 6550 fannin st sm 1201 houston tx 77030 usaintroductionnot since the human genome project has an area of biomedical science generated such widespread interest in the general pub- lic and explosion in scientific and medical literature as the microbiome.

what they producethe term flora which dates from the time when bacteria were included in the plant kingdom has now been largely abandoned and replaced by the term microbiota.the microbiome in health development influences and functionsat the level of bacterial strains the gut microbiota demon- strates tremendous diversity and variation between individ- uals.

these species have been referred to as enterotypes and it has been proposed that their relative prevalence is largely driven by diet  .though new evidence indicates that colonization of the infant's gut may commence in utero from the placenta most of the infant's microbiota is acquired from the mother during birth and continues to be populated through feeding and con- tact with the external environment .

the infant microbiota evolves rapidly over the next 2-3 years to resemble that of the adult its composition influenced by such factors as mode of delivery vaginal birth vs. cesarean section source of nutri- ents breast milk vs. formula geography and exposure to antibiotics -.

stable through childhood adolescence and adulthood further changes in the microbiota are thought to occur in later life.

given that many neurodegenerative diseases occur in the el- derly the delineation of the normal older person's microbiota is of critical importance .

diet may be a major factor in age-related changes in the elderly microbiota if inadequate it can lead to a reduction in microbial diversity a phenomenon which has been linked to inflammation inflammaging in the elderly  .

