animal models have great importance in elucidating the role of microbiota in the patho- genesis of bowel diseases but some concerns exist in translat- ing these data to humans .some studies showed a strong relationship between liver and gut the portal system receives blood from the gut and intestinalblood content can be involved in the induction and progres- sion of liver damage in several chronic liver diseases .

in particular the relationship between liver and gut may also play a crucial role in this complex network of multiple interac- tions .the aim of this review is to summarize current knowledge on the potential role of the intestinal microbiota in the patho- genesis and development of chronic liver diseases in particular nafld and the subsequent development of hcc.intestinal microbiota a new 'organ'general assessmentin recent times the neglected and amorphous mass of intestinal bacteria has been promoted to the dignity of an actual organ interacting with other organs of the body both in physiology and pathology.the human colon harbors bacteria that reside within and colonize the gastrointestinal tract i.e.

recently failed to detect any metabolic or inflammatory changes resulting from the antibiotic-dependent gut microbiota shrinkage in obese subjects.intestinal microbiota and liver diseasesa general agreement on the role of intestinal microbiota in colo- rectal cancer genesis has been reached  but only sporadic data exist on the linkage with other tumors.

although the available data suggest that hpcs are involved in fibrogenesis and nafld progression and their activation in the setting of chronic liver disease may increase the risk for hcc fur- ther studies are needed to better clarify the role of these cells in the liver's response to nafld injury and hepatocarcinogenesis.new microbiota modulation strategiesseveral pharmacological interventions have been tested for the treatment of nafld with varying success but no drug therapy is currently recommended for this condition.

beyond the known risk factors for nafld the intestinal microbiota in particular dysbiosis defined as any change in the composition of the microbiota commonly found in healthy conditions is emerging as a new factor promoting the development of chronic liver diseases and hcc.

these two conditions are clearly associated with the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld considered the most common form of chronic liver disease in the western world .nafld is characterized by lipid deposition in the hepato- cytes and is considered the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome.

loguercio et al provided the first evidence that probiotic treatment with vsl3 could reduce the serum level of tramsaminases and improve some param- eters of liver function in a group of patients with different type of chronic liver diseases including 22 biopsy-proven nalfd .

2000 sequential observation of liver cell regeneration after massive hepatic necrosis in auxiliary partial orthotopic liver transplantation.

2012 supplementation with probiotics modifies gut flora and attenuates liver fat accumulation in rat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease model.

2005. beneficial effects of a probiotic vsl3 on parameters of liver dysfunction in chronic liver diseases.

235figure 2. the putative role of gut microbiota in the progression of liver injury from steatosis to steatohepatitis and cirrhosis.

a better under- standing of the pathogenic mechanisms underlying the devel- opment of nash and nash-related malignancies is therefore of paramount importance.intestinal microbiota and activation of hpcs seem to play a pivotal role in the induction and progression of liver damage in nafldnash.

in particular three main issues await definition 1 the relative role of the micro- biota vis-a-vis other well-known risk factors for nafld and hcc development 2 the prospective identification through metagenomic approaches of bacterial biomarkers able to reveal patients at high risk for severe liver disease andor hcc 3 the potential role of the manipulating the nash-prone microbiota to block or even reverse the carcinogenic process.acknowledgementsg.b.

2013 intestinal microbiota in patients with nonalco- holic fatty liver disease.

2010 the role of the gut microbiota in nonalco- holic fatty liver disease.

