colonic mucosa epithelium from each group was processed for ultrastructure evaluation colon section of the a microvilli and tjs of lc group b microvilli and tjs of hs group c microvilli and tjs of hl group transmission electron microscopy x 20000 d mitochondria of lc group e mitochondria of hs group f mitochondria of hl group transmission electron microscopy x 10000 caecum section of the g microvilli and tjs of lc group h microvilli and tjs of hs group i microvilli and tjs of hl group transmission electron microscopy x 20000 j mitochondria of lc group k mitochondria of hs group l mitochondria of hl group transmission electron microscopy x 10000. white arrow indicates the location of the tjs and red arrow indicates the mitochondria.decreases were markedly correlated with the abundance of turicibacter negative correlation and clostridium negative correlation.six compounds were differentially expressed in cecal digesta by the hc diet namely beta-alanine glyoxylic acid stigmasterol 1-eicosanol phytol and quinic acid.

2014b 2016. therefore the current study aimed to investigate the changes in fermented products and toxic compounds microbiome metabolomics and mucosal status of the hindgut of lactating goats fed with an hc diet over a short or long period.abbreviations lc low concentrate hc high-concentrate hs high concentrate short-term hl high concentrate short-term lps lipopolysaccharide vfa volatile fatty acid tj tight junction sara subacute ruminal acidosis scfa short-chain fatty acid vip variable importance in the projection ace abundance-based coverage estimator otu operational taxonomic unit rt- qpcr real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction sod superoxide dismutase gpx glutathione peroxidase mda malondialdehyde t-aoc total antioxidant capacity tlr4 toll-like receptor 4 myd88 myeloid differentiating factor 88 tnf-a tumor necrosis factor alpha il-1b interleukin-1 beta il- 10 interleukin-10 nhe nah hydrogen exchanger mct monocarboxylate transporter.resultshigh-concentrate diet induced changes in scfa and lps content in hindgut digestaas shown in table 1 compared with the lc group the hs and hl groups contained significantly higher free lps concentrations in the colonic digesta p  0.05. moreover the hs goats showed increases in lactate acetate propionate isobutyrate butyrate valerate and total scfa in the colonic digesta relative to the lc goats p  0.05. similarly compared with the lc goats the hl goats had higher concentrations of acetate propionate and total scfa in the colonic digesta p  0.05. in the cecal digesta the hs and hl goats showed higher levels of free lps and lactate than those of the lc goats p  0.05. the concentrations of propionate butyrate and total scfa in the cecal digesta were significantly increased in the hs goats than in the lc goats p  0.05. however no significant difference in scfa content in the cecal digesta was detected between the hl group and the lc group p  0.05.multivariate analysis of hindgut digesta compoundspartial least squares-discriminant analysis pls-da was employed to identify the key compounds to which the differences among the various groups are attributed.

n  5. fc fold change was calculated as a binary logarithm of the average mass response normalized peak area ratio between group lc vs. group hs hl where a positive value means that the average mass response of the metabolite in group hs hl is larger than that in group lc and a negative value means that the average mass response of the metabolite in group lc is larger than that in group hs hl.table 3  effects of high concentrate diet on the average richness and diversity of the bacterial community of the hindgut digesta.itemslchshl colonic digestaace1332 - 531222 - 361131 - 41chao 11398 - 1211208 - 341117 - 40shannon index7.47 - 0.097.09 - 0.136.57-0.19 caecal digestaace1293 - 371163 - 481140 - 64chao 11281 - 351153 - 471126 - 64shannon index7.21 - 0.146.83 - 0.216.46 - 0.34ace abundance-based coverage estimator.

the abundance of bacteroidetes in the colonic digesta was significantly increased in the hs group p  0.05 but markedly decreased in the hl group p  0.05 relative to that in the lc group figure s1.the taxa significantly affected by hc diet feeding at the genus level are shown in figure 2. in the colonic digesta as the proportion of concentrate increased the percentages of turicibacter clostridium oscillospira prevotella and bacteroides also increased.

as shown in table 3 the ace chao 1 and shannon indices were significantly decreased in the hindguttable 1  lps scfa and lactate concentration in the hindgut digesta in goats fed high concentrate diet.itemslchshl colonic digestadigesta of the hl group relative to those of the lc group p  0.05. compared with the lc group the hs goats showed a lower shannon index in the colonic digesta as well as ace and chao 1 indices in the cecal digesta p  0.05. figure s1 shows that the total operational taxonomic units otus are classified into 16 and 18 phyla obtained from the colonic and caecal digesta respectively figure s1.

compared with the control group the hl group showed upregulated expression of tnf-a and il-1b in the cecal mucosa p  0.05 meanwhile the hl group showed upregulated expression of tlr4 myd88 and il-1b in p  0.05. in addition the expression levels of nhe2 and mct4 were downregulated in the colonic mucosa of the hs goats p  0.05. compared with the lc goats the hl goats had lower nhe2 nhe3 mct1 and mct4 expression levels in the colonic mucosa p  0.05. no significant difference p  0.05 in the expression levels of mct1 and mct4 in the cecal mucosa was determined among the 3 groups figure 7d.

the mrna expression of the genes functionally associated with nutrients transport including nhe2 nhe3 mct1 and mct4 were significantly downregulated in the colonic mucosa by the hc diet p  0.05. the expression levels of the genes related to the inflammatory response including tlr4 myd88 tnf-a and il-1b were markedly upregulated in the cecal mucosa by the hc diet p  0.05. our results indicate that an hc diet induces microbiota dysbiosis metabolic disorders and mucosal damage in the hindgut of goats.keywords microbiome metabolome high-concentrate diet host health hindgut goatsintroductionto meet the required energy intake for high milk production a common strategy is to feed a large amount of dietary grain or easily degradable dietary byproducts to lactating dairy cows.

one group was fed a control diet composed of 65 forage and 35 mixed concentrate low concentrate group lc while the other group received a high-grain diet containing 65 mixed concentrate and 35 forage high concentrate long-term group hl for 19 weeks.

the levels of lactate endotoxin lipopolysaccharide lps and volatile fatty acid concentrations were higher in the intestinal digesta of the hc goats than in those of the lc goats p  0.05. the level of beta-alanine decreased whereas the levels of stigmasterol and quinic acid decreased in the cecal and colonic digesta of the hc goats.

2013. the increase in the percentage of prevotella in the colonic digesta of the goats fed with an hc diet was consistent with the increase in the starch content of the hindgut digesta of the goats fed with an hc diet.

after a 13-week feeding period we randomly chose 5 goats from the lc group and assigned them to a new group fed the high-grain diet containing 65 mixed concentrate and 35 forage high concentrate short-term group hs for 6 weeks including 2 weeks of dietary adaptation.

fold change was calculated as the binary logarithm of the average normalized peak intensity ratio between group 1 and group 2 where the positive value means that the average mass response of group 1 is higher than groupthe structural identification of the differential metaboliteswas performed as follows.

2012. the current study confirmed that feeding an hc diet to lactating dairy goats significantly increases total scfa and free lps concentration in the lumen of the hindgut indicating the impairment of fermentation and dysbiosis in the hindgut of goats.the alterations in the bacterial community in ruminal and hindgut digesta and their adaptation to different dietary regimens have been widely reported in ruminants that were fed an hc diet for a short period metzler-zebeli et al.

the results of the unweighted unifrac pcoa and amova further revealed the difference in bacterial community composition between the control and the hc groups and showed that feeding an hc diet altered the composition of the bacterial community in the hindgut digesta.

these results imply that the hc diet could induce inflammation in the cecal mucosa.conclusionthis study revealed that feeding an hc diet to lactating goats alters fermentation pattern bacterial dysbiosis and metabolicperturbations.

