the ep- ididymal-wat epi-wat perirenal-wat per-wat mesenteric- wat mes-wat liver and gastrointestinal system with or without chyme were immediately excised weighed measured and frozen in liquid nitrogen after sacrifice.ten-week-old male rfp rosa26-mtmg mice n  3 were treated with dla-m 1 gkg and then treated with bodipyr fl c16 5 mgkg or fitc-lps 5 mgkg separately by gavage for 4 h and the mice were observed with a whole-body imaging scope lumazone fa1300 usa.cell culture and steatotic hepatocyte model constructionl-02 cells were obtained from the cell resource center peking union medical college beijing china and they were cultured in dmem con- taining 10 fbs and 1 penicillin-streptomycin at 37 degc with 5 co2.

dla-m treatment restored the nefa con- centration to near normal levels in hfd-fed mice a and b. to di- rectly observe the dla-m adsorption of ffa mice expressing red fluorescent protein were separately treated with dla-m and bodipyr fl c16 a green fluorescent fatty acids by gavage.

com- parison of the phylum-level proportional abundance and the proportion of otus classified at the phylum rank in feces showed that dla-m treat- ment had a slight reversion effect of the change that was induced by hfd in bacteroidetes verrucomicrobia and tenericutes d and e. however hfd feeding significantly decreased the ratio of bacteroidetes to firmicutes by 54.7 compared with that of ncd mice whereas there was no difference between hfd and hfd  dla-m mice supplementary fig.

p b 0.05 and  p b 0.01compared with hfd by anova with tukey's multiple comparison test.rda was used to analyze the effective sequences of all samples p b 0.01. compared with the otus in ncd mice 70 otus 25 increased and 45 decreased were significantly altered in hfd mice.

compared with hfd mice mice that received dla-m supplementation exhibited changes in 13 otus 7 increased and 6 decreased thus resulting in sig- nificant changes in a total of 77 distinct otus.

among the 77 otus that were altered compared with those in hfd-fed mice 6 otus had changes that were reversed to the direction of those in ncd mice in response to dla-m treatment f g and supplementary data 1. detailed anal- ysis of the 6 otus with changes that were reversed by dla-m supple- mentation indicated that the changes in desulfovibrionaceae   ruminococcaceae  bacteroides   and blautia  were all reversed by dla-m and they all positively correlated with obesity in previous studies.lefse results showed the most differently abundant taxons of the three groups a. the relative abundance of blautia anddesulfovibrio was also identified by an additional unpaired wilcoxon rank-sum test p b 0.05 and these differences were consistent with the dla-m-induced reversal b and c.collectively our data suggested that dla-m treatment has the po- tential to improve the gut microbiota dysbiosis induced by an hfd in our model.fig.

hfd-fed mice treated with dla-m showed mild changes in the composition of the gut microbiota particularly increases in short-chain fatty acids scfa-producing blautia bacteria and decreases in endotoxin-producing desulfovibrio bacteria these changes were positively correlated with obesity and inflammation.

moreover lps treatment causes mild obesity and nafld in mice and humans .

cls-eaw-2013-014 and cls-eaw- 2015-013. c57bl6j and cd-1 icr mice were purchased from vital river laboratory animal technology co. ltd. beijing china and housed in a light and climate controlled room at 12 h light - dark cycle and 25 - 2 degc 3-4 micecage with free access to water and different diets.

ten-week-old male c57bl6j mice were randomly allocated into three groups containing six to fifteen animals each and they were fed the ncd or hfd 60 kcal fat for ten weeks.

ten-week-old male cd-1 mice were randomly distributed into three groups of 10 animals each and they were fed ncd or hfd 45 kcal fat for five weeks supplementary figs.

at the end of the experimental period all mice were starved for 12 h and then sacrificed.

to observe the lipid droplets frozen liver sec- tions and steatotic l-02 cells were staining by using oil red o or bodipy.dla-m absorption analysesfor the in vivo experiment rfp mice were treated as described above and the gastrointestinal contents stomach duodenum jejunum ileum cecum and colon were evaluated by using smears.

differences were considered statistically significant at p b 0.05.resultsdla-m prevents hfd-induced obesity and insulin resistance in micetwo mouse models of obesity 10-week-old male c57bl6j and cd-1 mice were fed ncd or hfd for 10 and5 weeks respectively.

1. dla-m decreases body weight and improves insulin resistance in hfd c57bl6j mice.

