nevertheless the data so far demonstrate the powerful effect of host-secreted mirnas on bacterial growth and opens new and perhaps very effective means for manipulation of gut microbial communities.gut microbiota impact the host gene expression program by inducing specific mirnasthe ability of gut microbiota to regulate gene expression in the iecs is now well recognized although the mechanisms through which gut microbes exert this regulation are not fully understood 68. work by camp and coworkers 69 suggest that gut microbiota induce differential expression of tran- scription factors that regulate the expression of responsive genes.

this review discusses the most recent knowledge about the contribution of mirnas in the regulation of the intestinal homeostasis.keywordsbutyrate gene regulation gut microbiota homeostasis micrornadoi 10.1002bies.201600200department of biochemistry and molecular biology university of southern denmark odense denmarkcorresponding authorantoaneta belchevae-mail abbreviationsdss dextran sulfate sodium hdac histone deacetylases hiecs human intestinal epithelial cells ibd inflammatory bowel disease iecs intestinal epithelial cells iescs intestinal epithelial stem cells lrp6 lipoprotein- receptor-related protein 6 mirna micro ribonucleic acid prrs pattern recognition receptors relmb resistin-like molecule-beta ta-cells tran- sient amplifying cells tgfb transforming growth factor beta tnbs 246- trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid uc ulcerative colitis.introductionthe gut microbiota is a complex community composed of bacteria viruses fungi protozoa and archaea that reside along the mucosa of the gastrointestinal tract.

targeting some of these deregulated mirnas may represent a novel treatment options for ibd patients.gut microbiota and mirnas do gut microbes regulate host mirna or do mirnas control themhost-secreated mirnas in control of gut microbiotathe microbiota play a key role in the maintenance of gut homeostasis and so far efforts have mainly focused on identification of the factors and the mechanisms through which the microbial community contributes to disease development 64 65. however the capacity of the host to regulate its own microbiota is not well understood.

these effects were mediated by mir-375 which is required for relmb expression 34.transforming growth factor beta tgf-b is known to suppress proliferation in the small intestinal epithelium and deregulation of the expression of this cytokine was shown to induce uncontrolled growth and promote tumorigenesis 35. several studies have identified mirnas as important players in the regulation of tgf-b signaling from different tissues 36 37 however the involvement of mirnas in the regulation of tgf-b signaling in the intestinal epithelium isa.

inhibition of these two mirnas normalized the autophagy inflammation and led to more effective clearance of aiec 58. in addition proper regulation of the atg16l1 expression by mirnas was shown to be critical for the normal paneth cell function 59.irgm is another autophagic protein that plays a central role in innate immunity and specifically against pathogenic bacteria such as mycobacterium tuberculosis salmonella typhimurium and aiec 60. not long ago it was found that deletion polymorphism upstream of irgm is the reason for altered irgm expression in crohn's disease 61. later was identified that irgm polymorphism c313ct is located within 30-utr seed sequence that pairs with mir-196.

the function of some of these small non-coding rnas is determined by mutations or alterations of the mirna complementary site followed by assessing changes in the phenotype that result from the disruption of the mirna regulation of gene expression 8. alternatively the analysis of the mirnas' function is carried out by prediction using computational methods 20. although significant progress has been made in identification of the coding mirna sequences their expression and their mode of regulation of gene expression still remain to be understood.

but is it also possible that gut microbiota affect gene expression in iecs at the post-transcriptional level by regulating the host mirna profile indeed it has been shown that the microbiota modulate host mirna expression pattern 70 as mice colonized with spf microbiota showed differential expression of nine mirnas in their ileum and colon compared to gf controls.

becausemirna-107 targets the expression of il-23p19 gene it was suggested that this mirna could regulate the immune homeostasis 73. therefore these studies provide clues that the microbiota regulate host gene expression through modulation of the host mirna signature.as discussed above the mirna expression signature is altered during intestinal inflammation and an increasing body of evidence shows that regulatory networks involving mirnas are at the root of controlling the inflammatory responses.

indeed gut micro- biota negatively regulates the expression of mir-10a via tlr myd88-dependent mechanism 47. microbial signals thatactivate tlr ligands and proinflammatory cytokines stimulate expression of several other mirnas such as mir-146 mir-132 mir-9 and mir-155 in macrophages and dendritic cells 9 48 49. another mirna that is induced by inflammatory signals is mir-124.

several examples demonstrating the contribution of mirnas in regulation of intestinal homeostasis are discussed below.mir-30 was recently identified as an important regulator of intestinal proliferation and differentiation 25. the expression of mir-30 was found to be higher in proliferating cells than in differentiated cells.

further insights into the role of mirnas in differentiation of goblet cells were provided in another study where gut-specific deletion of dicer1 dicer1 dgut which is essential for mirna biogenesis resulted in reduction of resistin-like molecule-beta relmb expression in goblet cells and highly predisposed the mice to parasite infection.

ta cells also prolifer- ate but in doing so they move toward the villus tip and differentiate into enterocytes enteroendocrine cells goblet and paneth cells 22. the precise equilibrium between proliferation differentiation and apoptosis is pivotal for the proper function of the intestinal epithelium thus regulation of gene expression plays a critical role in this process.

treatment of colon cancer cells with butyrate resulted in reduction of mir-106b family and decrease in proliferation 87. interestingly mir-106b targets p21 mrna 88 and is found overexpressed in cancer cells 89. butyrate also significantly downregulated mir-24 in the lt97 cell line 90 another mirna that is up- regulated in colon cancer 91. on the other hand the ability of butyrate to induce apoptosis in cancer cells is associated with induction of caspase 3 casp3 activity 92. later it was demonstrated that casp3 mrna is actually regulated by mir- let-7a 93. therefore it is possible that butyrate induced apoptosis in cancer cells is mediated by mir-let-7a.

this review focuses on the role of mirnas and their gene regulatory networks in regulation of intestinal function and homeostasis.where do mirnas come from and what they doto date hundreds of mirnas have been discovered and one intriguing question concerns their biological role.

gut microbes and their metabolites possess an enormous potential to regulate gene expression in iecs and activate multiple signaling pathways and diverse immune responses 3. the integrity of the intestinal epithelium and the pattern recognition receptors prrs have a key role in this two-way signal transmission 4. disturbance in the mucosal barrier lead to acute inflammatory responses and development of inflammatory bowel disease ibd in genetically susceptible individuals 5. furthermore detection of specific microbial products by prrs induces tolerogenic immune responses 6 or in some cases trigger intestinal inflammation 7. the molecular aspects of the crosstalk between the intestinal epithelium and the gut microbiota however still remain elusive.micrornas mirnas are involved in the regulation of essential physiological processes 8 9 yet the contribution of the mirnas in host-microbiota interactions is not understood.

