microbiome a bag of surprisesonce thought to be sterile the bladder contains microbes that could influence the development and treatment ofcancer.that in contrast to urine left open to the air urine contained in sealed vials did not become clouded with growing microbes.

a micro- biome reflects a community of bacteria that have a functional relationship to each other or to their host environment says rembert pieper who studies infectious diseases at the j. craig venter institute.when it comes to microbes in the bladder that's very difficult to prove.one difficulty when studying urinary microbes is that although they occur in many people they are generally found in low numbers.

but such meth- ods detect only microbes that thrive under culture conditions and miss those that do not.

if unculturable microbes were present in the bladder they would not be detected.the same used to be true of other parts of the body such as the gut.

suspicious that they were missing something researchers in the mid-2000s applied 'culture-independent' methods originally developed to find uncul- turable microbes in environmental samples to body parts.

it can reveal all the microbial genes in a sample as well as the metabolic pathways they encode but it sometimes fails to detect microbes that are present in low numbers.these techniques have been used on various body sites including the gut skin vagina and mouth as part of the human microbiome project which was launched in 2008. but the bladder and urinary tract were not included partly because the 'sterile urine' dogma was so deeply entrenched.a handful of researchers had questioned this dogma as far back as the 1970s but it persistedby claire ainsworth t was with some trepidation that jeremy burton started his new job in 2013 as pro- fessor of urology at the lawson health research institute in london canada.

at the time bacteria were known mainly as a cause of urinary-tract infections and microbes in the gut had been implicated in kidney stones.

the dogma that urine and by extension the bladder must be sterile to be healthy has been overturned and microbes are being discovered throughout the urinary system.

although still at the early discovery stage research into the bladder's microbes promises to transform understanding of the urinary tract.

it's really grown and exploded rapidly says burton.clouded judgementthe idea that healthy urine is sterile dates back to the mid-nineteenth century when early microbiologists such as louis pasteur showeduntil 2012 when researchers published results of 16s rrna sequencing studies on urine sam- ples and found evidence of microbes in people without urinary-tract infections.

compounding this rarity is the problem of contamination because urine passing through the lower urethra can pick up microbes from the genital tract for example.

they could also allowenhanced quantitative urine culture can grow bacteria previously thought to be unculturable.response and also with proteins associated with damage to the bladder lining.there is currently no hard evidence linking microbes with bladder cancer but research- ers are beginning to explore several plausible mechanisms.

are bacteria exerting a pro- tective effect by reducing inflammation do they mop up or inactivate compounds knownresearchers to explore associations between bladder microbes and disease and could poten- tially unravel causal effects.

further studies will be needed to confirm any links which remain a little tenuous at the moment according to burton.as well as exploring whether microbes are involved in generating bladder cancer researchers are investigating how they mightto promote cancer development including heavy metals such as cadmium are bacteria in other microbiomes such as the gut influ- encing bladder health with crosstalk between the two if burton was wondering what to study four years ago he certainly isn't now.

