notably these authors demon- strated that inflamed adipocytes and m1 macrophages share a large number of upregulated mirnas that are only expressed in one or the other cell type under basal conditions effect that was more noticeable when studying mirnas secreted into the supernatants.

we have also included a provocative section highlighting the potential role in aging of a new designation of mirnas namely fecal mirnas recently discovered to regulate intestinal microbiota in mammals.c 2016 published by elsevier ireland ltd.introductionaging the natural process of growing older is characterized by a progressive deterioration of physiological homeostasis at the cellular tissue and organismal level.

as the emergence of bio- logical process regulation by mirnas playedplays a central role in the evolution of complex life the deregulation caused either by environmental genetic or stochastic factors of mirna expression andor function consequently represents a key driver of detri- mental alterations of life.in this review we consider the hallmarks described by lopez-otin and colleagues as a starting point then focus on those more directly involved in metabolic processes affecting aging and that have been shown to be regulated at least in part by mirnas .

17 out of 21 differentially abundant mirnas in normal mouse including mir- 34bc mir-127-5p mir-136-5p mir-154-5p mir-195a-5p mir- 342-5p mir-344d-3pd-1-5pd-2-5pd-3-5p mir-369-5p mir-376c-5p mir-381-5p mir-410-5p mir-411-5p mir-449a-5pmir-540-5p and mir-5107-5p  and 23 out of 34 differentially expressed mirnas in the nematode c. elegans including let-7 mir-45 mir-37 mir-36 mir-85 mir-63 mir-41 mir-58 mir-74 mir-42 mir-64 mir-77 mir-70 mir-233 mir- 273 mir-73 mir-39 mir-1 mir-229 mir-67 mir-59 mir-38and mir-43 an.

these apparent contradictory findings might account at least in part for differences occurring between cr and ames dwarf mutation-induced extension of lifespan  .micrornas and deregulated nutrient-sensing during agingthe relationship between nutrient-sensing and aging is welldemonstrated by multiple studies and reviewed elsewhere  fi o. in this sec- tion we will focus on the involvement of mirnas in these pathways with special emphasis on those mirnas that regulate four main nutrient-sensing pathways involved in the pathogenesis of age- related diseases namely insulinigf-1 glucose-sensing mtor high aminoacid level sensor and low-energy state sensors amp- activated protein kinase ampk and sirtuins pathways .

however recent findings pointing towards the existence of mitochondria- encoded mirnas   suggest that mitomirs could perform additional roles such as 3 mitochondria-encoded mirnas that act at the mitochondria itself e.g.

importantly this trio and others inflam- maging mirnas including mir-17e92 mir-126 and mir-223 have been found enriched in inflammatory microvesicles and associated with metabolic and cardiovascular diseases therefore dubbed cardiometabolic mirnas reviewed in  .

in the following paragraphs we portrait these holobiome interactions as a two-way boulevard  on one direction microbiota may influence host gene expression throughthe regulation of host mirnas   s.  d.  on the other direction host mirnas released into the intestinal lumen can control the gut microbiota by regulating bacterial functions such as growth s. .regarding the microbiota  host direction wang and collab- orators demonstrated that mouse intestinal microflora metabolize dietary flavonoids i.e.

as expected several mirnas have been reported to target sirt1 including mir-34a which was identified as a highly elevated posttranscriptional regulator of sirt1 during the regulation of cell death and metabolism  .

generally mitomirs are described in two main fla- vors depending on how they exert their functions 1 as nucleus- encoded mirnas that function in the cell nucleus or the cytosol regulating genes encoding mitochondrial proteins e.g.

putative mitochondria-encoded mir-1974 mir-1977 and mir-1978  and 4 as mitochondria- encoded mirnas that act at the cell nucleus or cytoplasm there- fore displaying mitochondrial retrograde signaling e.g.

overexpression of the two lncrna- encoded mirnas induced a similar phenotype to that of the parental asncmtrna-2 with cell cycle delay in the g1 and g2m phases .

importantly members of this family are strongly induced upon t cell activation  and can potentiate t helper cell proliferation in a dgcr8-deficient background  .

accordingly the mammalian somatotrophic axis involving gh and the insulinigf-1 signaling pathways plays fundamental roles in modulating physi- ological and pathophysiological aging by altering nutrient sensing insulin sensitivity and mitochondrial function among others o.the discovery of micrornas mirnas and their mechanisms of action has dramatically widen and clarified our understanding of gene regulation  .

there is also some evidence that under particular circumstances mirnas can enhance mrna translation  x. .

