recently data about the impact of gut microbiota in eliciting innate and adap- tive immune responses in the context of cancer therapy were reported  representing a paradigm shift of the host-microbe mutualism in which microbiota is no longer a potential patho- gen but a possible therapeutic partner.role of microbiota in cancerthe infectious hypothesisin 2012 approximately 15 of new cancer cases worldwide were attributable to carcinogenic infections with significant differ- ences between occidental countries 5 of cases and some sub-saharan african countries 50 of cases .

main studies reporting microbiota variations in diges- tive neoplasms are summarized in .role of microbiota in cancer therapyrecently a new landscape research emerged where microbiota members would not be the etiology of cancer but rather a way to control it .

finally h.pylori could act as a trigger for the development of chronic atrophic gastritis associ- ated with a decreased acidity and changes in the constitution of the microbiota that could play important roles in the later stages of gastric carcinogenesis .esophageal cancer eccomparing ccr with gastric cancer data about microbiota and ec are poor.

in this review we discuss how the microbiota can promote digestive tract carcinogenesis responsiveness to cancer therapeutics and cancer-associated complications.introductionhuman body contains ten times more commensal microorgan- isms than cells  with a symbiotic interaction between the host and the components of the microbiota contributing to maintain the gut homeostasis .

the way the microbiota could play a role in esophageal carcinogenesis remains uncer- tain but toll-like receptors tlrs expressed in the microenvi- ronment of the esophageal mucosa are suggested as potential mediators of the progression from reflux disorders to cancer mediating the interaction between the immune system and the microbiome .hepatocellular carcinomathe liver is constantly exposed to microbial products from the enteric microbiota via the portal vein flow.

complex interaction between gut microbiota immune system and tumor cells led us into a new era in which microorganisms can be either our foes or friends.relationship between diet microbiota bile acids and immunityhigh-saturated fat intake significantly increases the risk of crc but multiple actors are involved with interconnection between obesity inflammation bile acids and the microbiome.

the microbiota can directly inhibit exogenous pathogens but it is able to stimulate and regulate innate and adaptive immunities.microbiota and digestive cancerscolorectal cancersome indirect arguments suggest a potential role of the gut microbiota in colorectal carcinogenesis.

1161table 1. summary of colonic microbiota variations in colorectal cancerrdna sequencingbacteroidetes firmicutescastellarin et al.2012colonic mucosa pcr 16s rrna1111fusobacteriumsequencingthe different members of the microbiota.

first described the impact of gut microbiota on anticancer therapy's efficacy .they showed that cyclophosphamide altered the composition of microbiota in mice and induced the translocation of some gram-positive bacteria into secondary lymphoid organs where they stimulated the generation of th17 cells and memory th1 immune responses.

the way the microbiota is involved in immunotherapeutic resistance in cancer remains to be investigated especially as the interaction between microor- ganisms and tumor cells is complex and ambivalent.

although 74 of the global gastric cancer burden worldwide is attributable to h.pylori  this latter may change the composition and biodiver- sity of the gastric microbiota promoting gastric carcinogenesis.

recently compared the gastric microbiota of two groups of subjects issued from two colombian towns with dramatically different gastric cancer incidences despite similar h.pylori prevalences .

studies on animal models strongly support the fundamental role of microbiota in the development of gastric cancer.

several studies evalu- ating the role of microbiota in pancreatic cancer pc did it through the oral microbiome .

12figure 2. impact of gut microbiota on cancer therapy efficacy and safety.

