4. differential changes to epithelial permeability and tight junction-associated gene expression in small and large intestine of btbr mice a in distal ileum btbr mice showed a marked increase in fitc transepithelial permeability with no substantial changes to either tight junction-associated genes b or mucin2 gene expression e. c in the colon of btbr mice fitc permeability was increased in the end but decreased in the beginning of the incubation period.

mean values in each time point were further compared between groups with unpaired t-test.behavior-related hormone oxytocin in btbr plasma d. further btbr mice displayed higher baseline levels of the stress hormone corticoste- rone as well as elevated corticosterone values at the peak of the acute stress response and during the subsequent recovery phase l p b0.05 for the effect of genotype f116  8.193. despite this hyper-cor- ticosterone phenotype btbr mice had smaller adrenal glands and in- creased expression of the glucocorticoid receptor gene in the hippocampus m-n. interestingly the expression of cyp11a1 a gene encoding the first rate-limiting enzyme in the production of corti- costerone was substantially up-regulated in the distal ileum of btbr mice fig.

a p value b 0.05 was deemed significant in all cases.resultsbtbr mice display marked changes in the intestinal microbiotathe 16s sequencing revealed a substantial reduction in the bacterial species diversity in the btbr cecum a. principal coordinate anal- ysis showed a clear separation of btbr and c57bl6 microbiotas  b. we detected 9 phyla 23 families and 41 bacterial genera in c57bl6 and btbr mice table s2.

with such a prominent shift in the microbiota composition it was perhaps not surprising that btbr mice also displayed significant chang- es in the scfas levels in the gut lumen d. overall btbr mice seem to have a very robust phenotype of the gut microbiota.

1. altered microbiota composition and short chain fatty acid levels in btbr mice a-b btbr cecal microbiota showed lower diversity of bacterial species and was clearly separated from the microbiota of c57bl6 mice.

hence we examined intestinal motility and found that whole intestinal transit was significantly delayed in btbr mice  a. further btbr mice displayed an elongated colon and decreased fecal water contents b-c both observations suggesting that the propagation of fecal matter along the colon was substantially slowed.

indeed it took al- most twice as long to initiate spontaneous propagation of the pellet along the colon and there was a trend towards a reduction in the veloc- ity of oral-to-anal propulsion in btbr mice d. measuring small intestinal transit in btbr mice would be of interest for the futurestudies particularly bearing in mind that impaired small intestinal mo- tility was previously reported in a rat model of asd .impaired serotonin production in the btbr intestinethe release of mucosal serotonin 5-ht triggers intestinal peristal- sis .

2. delayed intestinal transit and impaired serotonin metabolism in btbr mice implication of microbiota a-c btbr mice showed delayed whole intestinal transit as well as an elongated colon and decreased fecal water contents.

chat staining showed the fine structure of mp with ganglia and interganglionic fibers a. the morphometric analysis revealed a substantial reduction in the spatial density of mp in btbr mice the area occupied by mp was decreased while the interganglionic space was increased b. furthermore we found a 50 reduction in the numbers of inhibitory motor neurons nnos and total myenteric neu- rons pan-neuronal huchud marker c-d. these data suggest an abnormal development of both excitatory and inhibitory motor neu- rons in btbr mice.

interestingly the expression of muc2 a gene encoding mucin 2 which is the major constituent of mucus layer was down-regulated in the large intestine of btbr mice but not in distal small intestine e. despite marked alterations in fitc permeability only marginal changes in ion conduc- tance teer were observed in either ileum or colon samples of btbr mice f left panel.

many of these differences can be driven by a unique metabolic pro- file of each bacterial genus including the production of different biologically active compounds such as scfas or indoles   .btbr mice display reduced plasma bile acid levels and deficient bile acid signaling in the ileumepithelial permeability data  clearly demonstrated functional differences between the colon and the ileum in btbr mice.

5. altered bile acid signatures and deficient bacterial metabolism of bile moieties in btbr mice a in plasma a reduction in unconjugated and tauro-conjugated ba levels was seen in btbr mice.

6. autistic-like behavioral phenotype in btbr mice a-d btbr mice displayed impaired social interactions as well as decreased plasma levels of oxytocin.

therefore a reduction in secondary ba levels could contribute to the delayed colonic transit in btbr mice b-d. further tauro-conjugated b-mca has recently been shown to be a potent natural antagonist of fxr receptor in mice and to inhibit its downstream signaling .

hence a decrease in 5-ht bioavailability can explain delayed intestinal transit and reduced activity of electrolyte transport seen in btbr mice a-d f. interestingly metabolism of tryptophan along the kynurenine route also seems to be affected in btbr mice.

