can presence or absence of periodontal pathogens distinguish between subjects with chronic and aggressive periodontitis a sys- tematic review j clin periodontol 2002 29suppl 3 10-21.mombelli a cionca n almaghlouth a. does adjunctive antimicrobial therapy reduce the perceived need for peri- odontal surgery periodontol 2000 2011 55 205-216.mombelli a cionca n almaghlouth a decaillet f cour- voisier ds giannopoulou c. are there specific benefits of amoxicillin plus metronidazole in aggregatibacter actino- mycetemcomitans-associated periodontitis double- masked randomized clinical trial of efficacy and safety.

all rights reservedperiodontology 2000microbial colonization of the periodontal pocket and its significance for periodontal therapyandrea mombelli the cardinal symptoms of periodontal disease are loss of periodontal tissue attachment loss of alveo- lar bone and pocket formation.

j clin periodontol 2004 31 978-984.rams te listgarten ma slots j. the utility of 5 major putative periodontal pathogens and selected clinical parameters to predict periodontal breakdown in adults on maintenance care.

from studies with comparable designs in subjects with chronic or aggressive periodontitis 14 38 it is furthermore clear that there is a beneficial effect of antibiotics in both of these classes of periodontal disease.given the large diversity of microbiota associated with all forms of periodontitis and the complex inter- actions among members of the flora a therapeutic concept targeting a single species of bacterium as responsible for periodontitis now looks rather simplistic.

j clin periodontol 1996 23 346-354.sampaio e rocha m figueiredo lc faveri m duarte pm gomes lira ea feres m. clinical and microbiological effects of azithromycin in the treatment of generalized chronic periodontitis a randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial.

the periodontal pocket flora may be compared to a forest growing in a natural reserve whereas the conditions in an acute necrotizing lesion may rather resemble those of a heav- ily used football field.a polymicrobial infectious disease model for peri- odontitis has been proposed in which interactions between herpesviruses and bacteria are essential 93. active herpesvirus infection induces local immune suppression which may result in the up-growth of periodontopathic bacteria leading to periodontal dis- ease progression 95. a number of publications report findings in favor of the hypothesis that her- pesviruses may be involved in the onset or exacerba- tion of periodontitis.

they include association studies documenting the presence of human cytomegalo- virus epstein-barr virus and herpes simplex virus in gingival tissue gingival crevicular fluid and subgingi- val plaque of periodontitis lesions 95 immunologi- cal research on virus pathogenicity 16 53 and results suggesting a beneficial effect of intervention with antiviral drugs 100. it has been reasoned that mechanical debridement targeting subgingival bacte- rial aggregates also reduces subgingival herpesviruses36 and that antiseptics such as povidone-iodine and sodium hypochlorite are effective against both bacte- ria and viruses 94. like any other hypothesis on the etiology of periodontitis concerns exist regarding viral sampling viral detection methods and inferring causality from observational data 10.conclusionin contrast to classic bacterial infections in most cases of periodontitis the diversity of the microbiota increases as the disease develops.

for patients with adult peri- odontitis two studies reported better results of scal- ing and root planing supplemented with locally applied metronidazole than with adjunctive systemic metronidazole 76 77. in patients with aggressive periodontitis the systemic administration of amoxi- cillin and metronidazole resulted in significantly better results than treatment with antimicrobial photodynamic therapy 2.treatment outcomes of scaling and root planing in combination with systemic antibiotics local antibi- otic therapy andor periodontal surgery were com- pared over 24 months in a randomized clinical trial 35. probing depths were reduced by antibiotics probing-depth reduction  0.5 mm and surgery probing-depth reduction  0.4 mm.

j periodontol 1994 65 260-267.guerrero a griffiths gs nibali l suvan j moles dr lau- rell l tonetti ms. adjunctive benefits of systemic amoxi- cillin and metronidazole in non-surgical treatment of generalized aggressive periodontitis a randomized pla- cebo-controlled clinical trial.

periodontol 2000 2002 28 106-176.soares gm mendes ja silva mp faveri m teles r socransky ss wang x figueiredo lc fere m. metronida- zole alone or with amoxicillin as adjuncts to non-surgical treatment of chronic periodontitis a secondary analysis of microbiological results from a randomized clinical trial.

j clin periodontol 1989 16 128-131.van winkelhoff aj tijhof cj de graaff j. microbiological and clinical results of metronidazole plus amoxicillin ther- apy in actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans-associated periodontitis.

microbes infect 2001 3 633-637.preus hr scheie aa baelum v. letter to the editor re the clinical effect of scaling and root planing and the con- comitant administration of systemic amoxicillin and metronidazole a systematic review re effectiveness of systemic amoxicillinmetronidazole as adjunctive therapy to scaling and root planing in the treatment of chronic periodontitis a systematic review and meta-analysis re effectiveness of systemic amoxicillinmetronidazole as an adjunctive therapy to full-mouth scaling and root planing in the treatment of aggressive periodontitis a systematic review and meta-analysis.

clinical and microbiological ben- efits of metronidazole alone or with amoxicillin as adjuncts in the treatment of chronic periodontitis a ran- domized placebo-controlled clinical trial.

more recently it has also been shown that an antimicrobial effect of some substances can be activated in periodontal pockets using the principle of photodynamic therapy 116. the aim of this review was to reassess strategies for periodontal therapy from the perspective of the disease being a consequence of microbial colonization of the peri- odontal pocket environment.microbial colonization of the gingival crevice and its consequencesa groundbreaking experiment in humans suggested a cause-effect relationship between the aggregation of bacterial deposits in the area of the gingival crevice and gingival inflammation 51. after having been instructed not to clean their teeth any more young volunteers with healthy gingiva were rechecked at varying time intervals.

the considerable intra- and inter-individual variation in gingival inflammation is viewed as a con- sequence of dissimilarities in the quantity and com- position of these deposits differences in systemic and local inflammatory responses and environmental factors.microbial colonization and periodontal pocket formationthe periodontal and microbiological status of the participants of the previously mentioned puberty gin- givitis study 39 64 was reassessed 6 years after pub- erty 68. individuals with a marked and sustained increase in mean papillary bleeding scores during puberty differed 6 years later from individuals with- out pronounced puberty gingivitis in the following aspects a significantly higher gingival bleeding ten- dency an increased number of sites with more than 3 mm of attachment loss and the presence of spiro- chetes in subgingival samples.

