For example new treatments with monoclonal antibodies against C. difficile toxins are administered during the course of treatment with C. difficile-specific antibiotics .Interestingly our predictive tool can identify some patients on first episode of CDI having higher risk of CDI recurrence than some patients on the second episode.Our study has a series of limitations.

Nevertheless only symptomatic pa- tients were accepted to have CDI or CDI recurrence and this was emphasized to investigators.

The ability to predict which patients are at increased risk of recurrent CDI makes it possible to select candidates for treatment with new drugs and therapies including fecal microbiota transplanta- tion that have proven to reduce the incidence of recurrence of CDI.

Predictors of recurrence of CDI were investigated using logistic regression in a prospective cohort of 274 patients diagnosed with CDI.

Greater accuracy might be obtained by combining this model with specific biomarkers of CDI .In summary prediction of recurrence of CDI is increasingly im- portant because of its potential role in the management of patients and in decisions on therapy .

In contrast prediction of recurrence would help physicians to better select candidates for new expensive treatments and fecal microbiota transplantation that have been shown to significantly reduce the frequency of recurrence of CDI .

A com- posite score based on 3 ranges makes it possible to select a low- risk group 0-1 points 29.9 of patients risk of recurrence 8.8 an intermediate-risk group 2-3 points 46.4 of patients risk of recurrence 22.3 and a high-risk group 4 points 23.9 of cases risk of recurrence 52.8.

The same inclusion criteria and defi- nitions of CDI were applied.All analyses were performed using Stata 14.1 for Windows.ResultsDuring the study period July 2014 to February 2015 a total of 581 cases of CDI were recorded in the derivation cohort.

We started with a maximum model comprising the variables age sex positive toxin result de- pendence according to the Katz index previous episodes of CDI underlying disease analysed using a composite variable that in- cluded presence of heart failure kidney disease diabetes cancer or immunosuppression maximum temperature at the time of di- agnosis and persistence of diarrhea after 5 days of antibiotic treatment for CDI.

Our objective was to develop a clinical prediction tool the GEIH-CDI score to determine the risk of recurrence of CDI.

