After 10 days of feeding maximal methane production rates 0.37 lg VS in R1 was observed while in R2 the lower temperature led to only medium methane yields 0.15 lg VS day 7 A.

Accordingly the growth of 17 species being positively affected and of 16 species including the two archaea shown in B was measuredbeing negatively affected by the lower temperature in group 41 degC and 35 degC respectively.

It was therefore distinguished between taxa within this complex population which are sensitive to a lower temperature and those which can cope better with temperature drops.

Group maize silage maize-optimized growth 13 GBs Group slurry slurry-optimized growth with temperature-specific overgrowth in R2 at 21 days 22 GBs Group 35degC growth positively affected by temperature drop 17 GBs Group 41 degC growth negatively affected by temperature drop 14 GBs.

As one the key parameters temperature is known to unbalance or inhibit the AD leading to an accumulation of organic acids andor a decrease in methane yields .

Further this study evaluated the microbiome during a temperature drop mediated process failure accompanied by acidosis and how it contributed to the recovery of the process on a functional level.MethodsFermentation setupAnaerobic Digestion Tests were carried out in a Continuous Biogas Test CBT among a series of trials on process stability and specific methane yield of maize silage variants in co-digestion with inoculated slurry and with inoculated slurry alone.

A Methane production yields of the three reactors R1-R3 R1 and R2 were continuously fed with maize silage and digestate and temperature was adjusted to 41 degC except for R2 with an initial phase at 35 degC until day 16 and a substrate feeding stop between day 16 and 24 indicated by the dashed line with missing methane yields for R3 only digestate was applied.

After increasing the temperature to the targeted value on day 16 and the subsequent feeding stop of 9 days in R2 fermentation was restored and methane production reached very quickly a maximum 0.38 lg VS 3 days after refeeding.

The third reactor exclusively fed with digestate ran under optimal set temperature 41 degC throughout the whole process time.

However pH did not decrease under 8.15 day 49 in R2 at any time C. The VOATIC value was not affected by the lower starting temperature E thus it was stable limiting value 0.3 in all reactors from day 28 on an average value of 0.125.

