Likewise few Chinese samples carried E. rectale strains from the other two SCs 1 of the 82 strains in one cluster and 20 of the 383 strains in the second cluster.Other strong geographical associations included the three main SCs of Bacteroides coprocola Supplemental Fig.

SC61 or SC71 but B. caccae also included country-specific clades such as SC41 12 Chinese strains SC60 six Spanish strains and SC35 five Danish strains.

S26-S41 thus likely represents key intestinal subspecies that may be important to further characterize by targeted experi- ments and isolation.Genetic diversity of strains in the same species varies significantly for different microbesIt is difficult to define microbial species systematically and to cap- ture each species' diversity appropriately with reference isolates Achtman and Wagner 2008 Cordero and Polz 2014 for example Streptococcus pneumoniae universal markers differ by up to 5.0 nu- cleotide identity across 49 strains compared to only 1.2 among 15 Streptococcus mitis strains Fraser et al.

However when checking for strain identity is necessary it is possible to set the threshold considering the intra-individual similarity of retained strains as compared to intra-individual strain heterogeneity.Single strains dominate most species in the gut microbiomeAnalysis of microbial population structures was previously only possible using relatively laborious sequencing of isolate collec- tions here we perform high-throughput strain-level profiling directly from a large set of metagenomes spanning multiple geo- graphical locations.

2A whereas the remaining nucleo- tides were largely dominated by a single variant.Considering all cases in which a species is found in a sample species-sample combinations multiple strains were detectable in 14698 cases 64.3 of species-sample combinations but it was still rare to find two or more strains at comparable abundance Fig.

Most strains are retained over time within the human gut but few strains are carried by multiple subjects.

This enabled us to first assess which species comprised strains forming a continuum within the overall species diversity versus those with discrete clusters of strains forming subspecies clades SCs.

Like population-specific human genetic alleles it appears crucial to consider these microbi- al population structures in future studies of the gut microbiome and its association with host conditions.Sets of related strains associate with geography even in otherwise cosmopolitan speciesEven in species lacking strong geographically discrete SCs groups of related strains often evidenced significant geographic assort- ment.

Their intra-SC SNV rate is much smaller than the minimum 0.045 and median 0.344 diversity of SC66 strains compared to other strains in B. caccae.

StrainPhlAn and the large metagenomic data set we analyzed allowed the assess- ment of all 125 microbial species' genetic diversities simultane- ously as they occurred in a broad population of human guts regardless of whether an extensive set of reference genomes was available.For each species containing at least four strains we calculated pairwise genetic distances between strains in the same species.

