for instance instead of arriving via the circulatory system some bacterial toxins can be transported to cns by the gi vagus nerve bolte this relationship between gut microbiome and brain development is now sometimes referred to as the microbiome-gut-brain axis which is composed of gut microbiome enteric nervous system vagus nerve neuroendocrine system that includes hypothalamic-pituitary- adrenal axis hpa axis and of course the central nervous system cns cong et al.

annual review of medicine 60 355-366.beydoun m. a. beydoun h. a. dore g. a. canas j. a. fanelli- kuczmarski m. t. evans m. k.  zonderman a. b.

genes brain behavior 131 69-86.strawbridge r. arnone d. danese a. papadopoulos a. herane v. a.  cleare a. j.

for example lower levels of bdnf serotonin and 5ht1a receptors were reported in the amygdala and hippocampus of germ free mice which were not recovered after re-colonization of normal microbiome in adult mice sampson  mazmanian the conversation between the brain and the gut may be moderated by at least four different pathways such as i the parasympathetic nervous system most notably the vagus nerve ii the immune system iii the gut neuroendocrine system or iv via circulatory system delivery of neuroactive metabolites and neuro- transmitters directly produced in the gut berger gray  roth the extent of this activity is surprisingly large.

nutrients 88 e483.hullar m. a.  fu b. c. 2014. diet the gut microbiome and epigenetics.the cancer journal 203 170-175.jacobi s. k.  odle j.

medical hypotheses 512 133-144.bourassa m. alim i. bultman s.  ratan r. 2016. butyrate neuroepigenetics and the gut microbiome can a high fiber diet improve brain health neuroscience letters 625 56-63.buka s. l. cannon t. d. torrey e. f.  yolken r. h. 2008. maternal exposure to herpes simplex virus and risk of psychosis among adult offspring.

mediators inflammation 2014 article id 162021 9 pages.raison c. l.  miller a. h. 2013. the evolutionary significance of depressionin pathogen host defense pathos-d. molecular psychiatry 18 15-37.rook g. a. lowry c. a.  raison c. l. 2014. hygiene and other early childhood influences on the subsequent function of the immune system.

other major microbial components of baby's gut flora include bifidobacterium streptococcus lactococcus and lactobacillus yatsunenko et al.

additionallysome other key metabolites of gut microbiota including s-adenosyl- methionine sam acetyl-coa nad alpha-kg and atp serve as essential cofactors for epigenetic enzymes that regulate dna methylation and histone modifications paul et al.

beside the general effects of gut bacterial flora which indirectly affects epigenetic landscape infection with some bacteria such as helicobacter pylori are specifically linked to dna methylation and may decrease expression of o6-methylguanine dna methyltrans- ferase sepulveda et al.

these molecules are produced by immune cells under chronic inflammatory conditions figure 2 which consequently lead to the development of many diseases such as uc cd and autoimmune disorders ciechomska  o'reilly furthermore recent studies have provided evidence that the imbalance of specific bacterial species in human gut contributes to ibd cd and uc pathogenesis through inflammatory processes which in part could be remedied by antibiotic therapy lopez-siles et al.

additionally it has been shown that the gut microbial samples of healthy individuals can improve the disease symptoms in individuals suffering from uc suskind et al.

jama psychiatry 71 1381-1391.koleva p. t. kim j. s. scott j. a.  kozyrskyj a. l. 2015. microbial programming of health and disease starts during fetal life.

2011. schizophrenia and autism both shared and disorder-specific pathogenesis via perinatal inflamma- tion pediatric research 69 26r--33.mirsepasi-lauridsen h. c. halkjaer s. i. mortensen e. m. lydolph m. c. nordgaard-lassen i. krogfelt k. a.  petersen a. m. 2016. extraintestinal pathogenic escherichia coli are associated with intestinal inflammation in patients with ulcerative colitis.

biomarker insights 10 47-54.willette a. a. lubach g. r. knickmeyer r. c. short s. j. styner m. gilmore j. h.  coe c. l. 2011. brain enlargement and increased behavioral andcytokine reactivity in infant monkeys following acute prenatalendotoxemia.

