CF caries-free children CAE caries-active children with enamel carious lesions CA caries-active children with dentin carious lesions PF supragingival plaque from caries-free tooth surfaces PE plaque from active enamel carious lesions PD plaque from active dentin carious lesions.34621.

significant P values CF caries-free children CAE caries-active children with enamel carious lesions CA caries-active children with dentin carious lesions PF supragingival plaque from caries-free tooth surfaces PE plaque from active enamel carious lesions PD plaque from active dentin carious lesions.

All remaining comparisons among the different groups plaque communities were significant.Due to the lack of significant differentiation among CA-PF CAE-PE and CA-PE these three types of plaque samples were grouped in all subsequent analyses.

Streptococcus genus probe 4 and Neis- seria genus probe 2 were the most frequently detected taxa across the plaque groups followed by Streptococcus sanguinis which was highly abundant in CF-PF.

The microbiomes of supragingival dental plaque differ substan- tially among tooth surfaces and children of different caries activities.

In support of the ecological nature of caries etiology a steady transition in community species composition was observed with disease progression.KEYWORDS bacteria caries children microbiome supragingival biofilms dental plaqueral bacteria that colonize the teeth form dental plaque a biofilm community that exists in equilibrium with host defenses and is generally compatible with the integrity of the tooth tissues .

However most studies correlating the composition of the oral microbiome with caries activity and etiology have exam- ined either saliva or dental plaque samples pooled from multiple tooth surfaces  which diminishes their clinical relevance considering that carious lesions occur at specific tooth sites .

To date only a few studies have examined the microbial profiles of site-specific supragingival plaque  .

For a better understand- ing of the caries process and the functions of specific organisms in the transition from dental health to the different stages of caries it is imperative that the plaque sampling methods be site specific.Despite growing efforts to define the composition and activities of the oral micro- biome in health and disease    the current understanding of the basis for the intraindividual and interindividual differences in microbial profiles is limited.

Two samples with low OTU counts 444 and 20650 were removed and all remaining samples were then normalized to a count ofAB-2-101234CAP1FIG 1 A Constrained analysis of principal coordinates CAP of plaque bacterial communities using distance-based redundancy analysis db-RDA.

