2006. in general there are no studies on the antibacterial antagonistic capacity of the intestinal microbiota of o. mykiss.the main objective of this research was to analyse the antibacterial ability of some members of the intestinal microbiota of specimens of o. mykiss on various bacterial target strains that can contaminate food and cause disease in humans.materials and methodstwenty adult males of o. mykiss between 1.3 and 1.6 kg each were obtained from the fish farming panguilemu located in the bio-bio region chile.

2010. it was inter- esting to note that some genera isolated from the intestinal microbiota presented a broad spectrum of antibacterial action against the target strains studied table 2. the obtained bacterial species with a wider spectrum of antibacterial action were l. lac- tis and h. alvei with activity against five target strains followed by p. shigelloides which was active against four strains.

in all specimens of o. mykiss unidentified bacterial strains with antagonistic activity were obtained table 1. also it was observed that the genus aeromonas repre- sented by a. veronii and a. sobria showed the highest percentages of strains with antagonistic capacity table 1. all bacterialtable 1. number and percentage of bacterial species obtained from the intestinal micro- biota of specimens of oncorhynchus mykiss with antagonistic activity on different target strains.aeromonas veronii129 75aeromonas sobria84 50plesiomonas shigelloides145 36hafnia alvei146 43nsa number of strains with antagonistic activity.

samples were centrifuged at 10000 g for 20 min and as above target strains were sown plated with 10 ul of supernatant and incu- bated at 37degc for 10 h. the diameter of inhibitory halos was evaluated as indicator of antibacterial action.species detected in the intestinal microbiota of the studied specimens of o. mykiss had been described previously pond et al.

2010.from the results of this study it is inter- esting to note the potential biotechnological use of these antibacterial products which could be incorporated into human foodsresults and discussionin the intestinal microbiota of 20 o. mykiss specimens the presence of bacterial species with antagonistic capacity against target strains was detected.

mmalyimckriioscosrorpgbraioondtisaumcoesfaoonfnttachgoeorhninyitsnetcischtuins- coalguaslinogbodsiasenadrseea ibnarhruermaansof talca talca chileabstractthe objective was to analyse the antibacterial ability of members of the intestinal microbiota of oncorhynchus mykiss specimens on several bacterial target strains that contaminate food and cause dis- ease in humans.

it is fur- ther noted that the catalase enzyme does notalter the biological activity of the product studied discarding the presence of hydro- gen peroxide as an antibacterial agent.considering the peptidic nature of bac- teriocins one can argue that the intestinal microbiota of the studied specimens of o. mykiss is composed of bacterial genera with bacteriocinogenic capacity.

in addi- tion these products could act secondarily as food preservatives.considering the chemical nature of antibacterial products elaborated by the intestinal microbiota of o. mykiss and according to the results obtained in this study it is interesting to note that the bacte- riocins are closely related to their potential application in the food industry and human health.

further studies of these antibacterial prod- ucts are essential for potential use in the future.conclusionsthe detection of substances of a pro- teinaceous nature possibly bacteriocins produced by bacteria of the intestinal microbiota of o. mykiss offers the possibil- ity to further study these products in order to establish biotechnological developments in the area of health protection and food biopreservation.referencesbalciunas em castillo fa dimitrov st gombossy de melo franco bd converti a pinheiro de souza oliveirar 2013. novel biotechnological appli- cations of bacteriocins a review.

it is native to the watersheds that drain into the pacific ocean in north america from alaska to mexico fao 2005-2012. major global producers of this fish are in europe north america chile japan and australia fao 2005- 2012. o. mykiss like many other fish species has a rich intestinal microbiota that in recent years has been particularly inves- tigated in relation to its development from youth to adulthood as has the composition of the microbiota associated with the diet ingerslev et al.

to test the antibacterial activity of the selected colonies three target strains were used one atcc and two belonging to the collection of bacterial strains of the microbiology department md-utal at university of talca.

enterica serovar typhimurium e. coli s. sonnei and v. parahaemolyticus with api 20e l. mono- cytogenes with listeria api and s. aureus with api staph system.all target strains were cultured in 2 ml of soy broth merck at 37degc for 18 h. five hundred microliters of each culture were mixed with 7 ml of bhi broth merck plus 0.8 agar-agar and poured onto the o. mykiss isolated intestinal colonies.

the detection of substances of a proteinaceous nature possibly bacteri- ocins produced by bacteria of the intestinal microbiota of o. mykiss allows further study of these products to establish biotech- nological developments in the area of health protection and food biopreservation.introductioncurrently foodborne diseases are a growing public health problem worldwide.

2011 which are pathogenic to salmonids accordingly studies on the antagonistic capacity of the intestinal microbiota of o. mykiss have been directed towards the control of infectious diseases in salmonids such as furunculosis and vibriosis kayis et al.

n20 specimens of o. mykiss.table 2. spectrum of antimicrobial action of the antagonistic substances produced by intestinal microbiota of oncorhynchus mykiss.italian journal of food safety 2017 66240page 97prone to contamination with microorgan- isms pathogenic to human beings.

