.caporaso jg kuczynski j stombaugh j bittinger k bushman fd costello ek fierer n pena ag goodrich jk gordon ji huttley ga kelley st knights d koenig je ley re lozupone ca mcdonald d muegge bd pirrung m reeder j sevinsky jr turnbaugh pj walters wa widmann j yatsunenko t zaneveld j knight r. 2010. qiime allows analysis of high-throughput community sequencing data.

.belnap j phillips s herrick j johansen j.

.zhang b zhang y su y wang j zhang j.

.belnap j phillips sl flint s money j caldwell m. 2008. global change and biological soil crusts effects of ultraviolet augmentation under altered precipitation regimes and nitrogen additions.

.bowker m belnap j budel b sannier c pietrasiak n eldridge dj rivera-aguilar v. 2016. controls on distribution patterns of biological soil crusts at micro- to global scales p 173-198. in weber b bu del b belnap j ed biological soil crusts an organizing principle in drylands.

.caporaso jg lauber cl walters wa berg-lyons d huntley j fierer n owens sm betley j fraser l bauer m gormley n gilbert ja smith g knight r. 2012. ultra-high-throughput microbial community analysis on the illumina hiseq and miseq platforms.

similarly the addition of nutrients enhanced the yield of biocrust growth in hot desert sites p plus n in fort bliss fb but only p in jornada j ls means tests p  0.05 .

algal plastids were as expected minor components in most sites but the presence of significant contributions of diatoms in the j inoculum was an unusual trait.

in some treatments relatively minor components of the biocrust microbial community become important as is the case in fb j and bb samples where we observed a high relative abundance of trichocoleus in various treatments .

we did not detect any significant factor in the fb site but in the j site inoculum and calcium were important.

pioneer crust-forming cyanobacteria microcoleus vaginatus microcoleus steenstrupii  retained significant proportions of the final biomass in all sites 18 29 51 and 47 for fb j nosecone n and bb respectively in the greenhouse-grown biomass .

nostoc tolypothrix leptolyng- bya and diatoms through plastid 16s rrna sequences grew in samples cultivated in the greenhouse whereas their relative abundances were not so important in the initial biocrust especially in fb j and bb sites .discussionour work clearly shows that it is feasible to produce large amounts of biocrust biomass from low levels of natural inoculum within relatively short incubation times by using controlled but seminatural greenhouse facilities biocrust nurseries.

boxes denote lower and upper quartiles with median values depicted as black solid lines and whiskers denote lower and upper extremes n  5. blue lines indicate the chl a content of field biocrust samples used as inoculum inoc and red lines indicate the initial chl a content in the inoculated soils init color solid lines indicate mean and color dashed lines indicate standard deviations of n  5 fb fort bliss j jornada n nosecone bb burr buttercup.remnant which in turn can be used to inoculate ca.

data are averages from five technical replicates inoc inoculum biocrust samples or five biological replicates cultivated biocrusts fb fort bliss j jornada n nosecone bb burr buttercup.

data are averages from five technical replicates inoc inoculum biocrust samples or five biological replicates cultivated biocrusts fb fort bliss j jornada n nosecone bb burr buttercup.occur.

