this integration is critical to bridging2-knowledge gaps for a more confident simulation of future dryland n2o emission and may accelerate the development of novel mitigation strategies for reducing n2o emission in situ.key biological pathways of n2o emissions in drylandsthe conventional n2o emission is thought to be largely the result of bacterial pathways however novel molecu- lar techniques like metagenomics and transcriptomics combined with nitrification inhibitors and stable isotope probing techniques have enabled the identification of unexpectedly diverse n2o-relevant metabolic pathways within other microbial domains e.g.

2014 and unknown consequences for other ecosystem processes singh and trivedi 2017. therefore future plant breeding programmes should con- sider the impacts on associated soil microbiota to ensure sustainable n2o mitigation without losing beneficial micro- biota and other ecosystem functions.the potential of emerging microbiome-based technologies for n2o mitigationdespite the principal role in all the processes of n2o emissions the soil microbiome is still rarely considered in designing practical mitigation approaches to control n2o emissions.

the abundance diversity and structure of aoa and aob amoa genes together with their specific n2o production rates could be promising attributes to improve the estimation of n2o emitted from the nitrification pathway while dynamics of the key denitrification genes such as nirk nirs and nosz together with their specific n2o productionconsumption rates could be used to improve the simulation of n2o emitted from the denitrifi- cation pathway.

2016. these pre- dicted changes would have unknown consequences for the future atmospheric n2o concentrations and mitiga- tion strategies if microbial processes and biological pathways mediating dryland n2o emissions are not properly accounted for in experimental and modelling efforts.the past two decades have seen an increasing effort devoted to understanding the microbial n2o pathways from diverse ecosystems at multiple spatial scales singh et al.

2013. this wetting-pulse pattern of n2o fluxes during brief periods can account for the majority of annual n2o emissions making dryland n2o patterns rather unique compared with other terrestrial ecosys- tems.

future manipulative research should simultaneously evaluate the relative importance of biotic and abiotic var- iables and their interactions as drivers of n-cycling microorganisms and associated n2o emissions.effects of emerging global changes on the biological pathways of dryland n2o emissionsclimate changes including climate warming increased aridity and climatic extremesimpacts of climate changes on n cycling and n2o emis- sions are assumed to be particularly relevant within dry- lands reynolds et al.

2015phytomicrobiomemicrobiome-basedrecombinant strainsphytomicrobiomemicrobiome-basedmicrobiota transplantationsoil microbiomemicrobiome-basedmicrobiota transplantationsoil microbiomemicrobiome-basedmicrobiota transplantationpoplar a plant species was inocu- lated with the endophyte burkhol- deria cepacia vm1468 expressing toluene degradation.soils suppressive to a fungal patho- gen rhizoctonia solani was mixed with disease conducive soils.soil microbiomes selected by arabi- dopsis thaliana host plants were inoculated into soils of three a. thaliana genotypes and a related crucifer.bradyrhizobium japonicum mutant with higher n2o reduction activity was inoculated into soybean rhizosphere.inoculation of poplar had a positive effect on plant growth in the pres- ence of toluene and reduced the amount of toluene released through evapotranspiration.the microbiota transplantation suc- cessfully suppressed the infection in sugar beet which was attributed to the core-microbiome in the soil in disease suppression.plant hosts showed a shift in flower- ing time corresponding with the inoculation of early- or late- flowering microbiomes.inoculation with n2o reductase- containing b. japonicum effectively reduced n2o emissions from soy- bean root systems in pot experiments.taghavi et al.

for example in laboratory soil microcosms with or without nitrification inhibitors acetylene andor 1-octyne kinetics of nitrification and n2o production were directly linked with activities of aoa and aob suggesting that aob dominate n2o production under conditions of high inorganic ammonia inputs while aoa produce n2o resulting from mineral- ized ammonia hink et al.

despite of the pivotal influences of microbial communities on the production and consumption of n2o we have limited knowledge of the biological pathways and mechanisms underpinning n2o emissions from drylands which are estimated to account for 30 of total gaseous nitrogen emissions on earth.

140 tg n per year and cultivation of n-fixing forages and crops del grosso and parton 2012. globally terrestrial ecosystems emit approx- imately 6.8 tg n2o-n per year into the atmosphere and are the largest contributor 65 to the global n2o budget ipcc 2013. an emerging body of evidence highlights that soil microbial communities are key drivers of terrestrial n2o emissions and n transformations and modulate the effects of climate change on ecosystem functioning richardson et al.

a mecha- nistic understanding of these microbial modulators and their direct linkage to n2o fluxes therefore is a prerequisite for improved estimation of global n2o emissions and develop- ment of innovative mitigation strategies.drylands including hyper-arid arid semi-arid and dry sub-humid ecosystems are water-limited and drought- prone regions with an aridity index defined as the ratio of the mean annual precipitation to potential evapotrans- piration less than 0.65 safriel and adeel 2005.fig.

2015. it was found that a constant level of n2o fluxes is generally observed during the dry seasons with considerable increases in the amounts of n2o emissions occurring as soon as dry- lands are wetted following rainfall or irrigation events barton et al.

2016 it is imperative to gain a better understanding of the major microbial predictors of dry- land n2o emissions and their interactions with various abiotic and biotic factors.in order to combat the steady increase in atmospheric n2o concentrations various strategies have been pro- posed to manipulate soil physicochemical conditions through land-management practices e.g.

2013. by using fungal inhibitor cycloheximide and bactericide streptomycin to distinguish the relative contribution of fungi and bacteria to n2o production fungal denitrifiers were found to be the dominant sources of dryland n2o emissions during the dry seasons across diverse environmental conditions crenshaw et al.

2012. howeverfungi generally lack the nosz gene encoding the n2o reductase to further reduce n2o to n2 philippot et al.

