finally we will describe the potential therapeutic strategies based on intestinal microbiota manipulation for colorectal cancer treatment.keywords colorectal cancer intestinal microbiota inflammation genotoxins host-pathogen interactionintroductioncolorectal cancer crc is the third most common cancer in both males and females with about1.36 million of new cases per year and the fourth leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide with 700000 deaths per year .crc formation begins with the transformation of the normal epithelium mucosa into hyper-proliferative epithelium.

these studies show a major role of the microbiota in protecting the gut integrity.modulation of immune systemthe gut microbiota contributes to the maturation and modulation of both mucosal and systemic immune systems via innate immune components not much specific such as the pattern recognition receptors prrs expressed on the different cell types in the mucosa enterocytes polynuclear cells mast cells macrophages and dendritic cells and adaptive immune components which are highly specific receptors expressed on the surface of t cells and b cells.

these two sites are enriched in microfold cells m cells which allow the translocation of bacteria that can be captured by dendritic cells and presented to naive t cells leading to the activation of b cells and therefore the secretion of iga .

when they conventionalized germ-free mice with either the healthy microbiota of untreated mice or the microbiota of tumor-bearing aom-dss-treated mice those conventionalized with tumor-bearing mice-associated microbiota exhibit more tumors and decreased gut microbiota diversity compared to those conventionalized with the healthy microbiota .

in 2008 a meta-analysis showed that smokers have 18 increased risk to develop crc compared to never-smokers .obesity is a risk factor of various cancers including pancreatic kidney liver breast esophageal gastric and colorectal cancer and has been estimated to account for 14 of cancer deaths in men and 20 of cancer deaths in women .

this review will summarize the current knowledge about the potential links between the intestinal microbiota and colorectal cancer with a focus on the pro-carcinogenic properties of bacterial microbiota such as induction of inflammation the biosynthesis of genotoxins that interfere with cell cycle regulation and the production of toxic metabolites.

during inflammation the recruitment of innate immune cells such as macrophages neutrophils and dendritic cells and adaptive immune cells such as t and b cells leads to the secretion of oxygennitrogen reactive species which are highly genotoxic  pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin il-6 il-8 il-1b and tumor necrosis factor-a tnf-a as well as growth factors .

moreover following aom-dss treatment nod1-deficient mice exhibit impaired interferon gamma ifn-g production and therefore increased inflammation-associated tumorigenesis compared to wild type mice .these data suggest a close link between inflammation and microbiota modulation during colorectal tumorigenesis.intestinal microbiota and gut homeostasisthe intestinal microbiota is the complex community of all microorganisms in the gut including not only bacteria but also fungi viruses archaea and protozoans.

finally we will discuss the potential therapeutic strategies for crc treatment based on manipulation of intestinal microbiota.determinant factors of colorectal cancer crccrc is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer in males and the second in females with 1.36 million new cases per year and almost 694000 deaths in 2012 .the risk of developing crc increases with age.

cancer 2012 118 3636-3644.  ryan-harshman m. aldoori w. diet and colorectal cancer.

j. cancer 2017 140 1985-1997.  golshiri p. rasooli s. emami m. najimi a. effects of physical activity on risk of colorectal cancer a case-control study.

toll-like receptor signaling in colorectal cancer carcinogenesis to cancer therapy.

fusobacterium nucleatum increases proliferation of colorectal cancer cells and tumor development in mice by activating toll-like receptor 4 signaling to nuclear factor-kb and up-regulating expression of microrna-21.

this pathogen is also able to invade epithelial cells via its virulence factor fada by modulating the e-cadherin signaling pathway leading to the activation of several transcription factors such as t-cell factor tcf b-catenin nf-kb c-myc and cyclin d1 and subsequently enhanced proliferation of colon cancer cells .

primarily linked to gastric cancer studies have also started to investigate the association between helicobacter pylori and crc .possible mechanisms of action of the intestinal microbiota in colorectal carcinogenesisenterococcus faecalise.

