disruption of community biochemical activities may therefore better reflect microbiome dysfunction than taxonomic changes.12 accordingly biochemical tests were used to examine the pathways that were phenotypically active in the whole microbiome consortium before and after antibiotic exposure.as expected for a complex community the skin micro- biome extracted before treatment was biochemically active with 23 of 31 tests being positive table 1. eight 35 of these enzyme activities were lost after 3 days of antibiotic exposure whereas four new activities were gained.

consistent with other studies this tractable animal model shows lasting effects on mucosal microbiomes following antibiotic exposure including persistence of drug-resistant organisms in the community.keywords microbiome antibiotic antibiotic resistance gambusia affinis community disruptionintroductionantibiotics are potent tools in modern medicine but select for resistance in pathogens and thus can become ineffective.

although host-derived enzymes in the skin mucus could potentially cause false positive results in these systems it is unlikely since these enzymes would be at very low concentrations compared to the bacterial enzymes in this culture-based system.to further examine the phenotypical properties of the skin microbiome consortium following antibiotic exposure the susceptibility profile of the consortium was determinedfigure 2 wild-type skin microbiome composition.massilia 21.2canditatus captivus1 19.7rickettsia 6.0leptothrix 5.7ottowia 5.2candidatus captivus2 3.8variovorax 2.1fukun18 1.8novosphingobium 1.8b 1.6ld28 1.4other 29.6notes average percent normalized abundance of the top 11 taxa from skin of four control fish shown at the genus level.

captivus is uncultured and has unknown oxygen requirements.a previous study on the gambusia skin microbiome suggested that this mucosal surface may be selective not simply a passive recipient of bacteria from the water col- umn.6 the differences in community composition between the skin and water observed in this study figure 3 support this conclusion.disruption of the fish skin microbiome by rifampicin results in only a transient 38.5 h loss of culturable bac- teria however drug-resistant bacteria are rapidly selected for and persist for at least 2 weeks following the removal of antibiotic.

the controllable vertebrate model used in this study is now being used to investigate the effects on the host organism resulting from significant antibiotic-induced microbiome community changes2425 and driving factors during the recovery of the microbiome after antibiotic stress.

thus the exact disruption of microbiome com- munity composition caused by the antibiotics appears to vary according to each particular antibiotic and across model organisms.this study examined the effect of a high dose of broad- spectrum antibiotic on community composition biochemical activities and drug resistance in the skin and gut microbi- omes of a vertebrate model gambusia affinis the western mosquito fish.

rifampicin also causes a major loss of diversity and evenness in the gut microbiome table 4. treatment of salmon with oxytetracycline in food for up to 25 days did100806040200020406080time h100120140160figure 4 antibiotic effect on skin microbiome.notes abundance of dominant genera across time during the week of antibiotic exposure.

genomic dna was extracted using the powersoil dna isolation kit mobio laboratories carlsbad ca usa following protocols benchmarked during the human microbiome project and the earth microbiome project.

although the microbiome wassensitive at the same level both before and after rifampicin selection against sulfisoxazole at least some resistance to trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole was selected.the many susceptibility changes strongly suggest that a major change in the microbiome composition is caused by rifampicin selection.

abbreviation oxferm oxidation or fermentation of the respective carbon source.58 most abundant representing 91.5 of all sequences not being shared among all four fish whereas all of the 229 taxa identified from just one out of the four fish were rare below the abundance level of 0.04. fish from the same aquarium have very similar skin microbiome compositions.fish skin fish gut and lake water microbiome communi- ties contain mostly the same families but at strongly different abundances figure 3. of the 308 total bacterial families recovered on the skin 237 are shared between skin and water representing 99.8 of the sequence abundance on skin.

it should be noted that in a recent study on rainbow trout about 50 of the microbiome community diversity was present within the skin epitheliumso this may be serving as a major reservoir to reseed the mucosa and was not examined in this study.19rifampicin-resistant organisms are likely present at low levels in the gambusia skin microbiome the detection limitapc2 12bpc2 15untreated skintreated skin recovered skinuntreated gut treated gut recovered gutpc1 32pc1 32an interesting result in this study was the loss of rickett- sia from the fish.

the antibiotic lowered the skin and gut microbiome community diversity and altered taxonomic composition observed by 16s rrna profiling.

initiation of anti- biotic exposure resulted in a rapid loss of viability for the skin microbiome 73-fold drop in the cfu numbers at17.5 h. however culturable numbers were fully recovered and maintained after 38.5 h. during the 1-week exposure to antibiotic the cfu numbers on rifampicin-containing plates were 71 1.6 days 73 2.7 days and 88 3.9 days those of nutrient agar.

no change was seen with five drugs amp oxa bac van and g antibiotic codes are given in table 2 but the microbiome consortium was completely resistant to four of those both before and after rifampicin exposure.

the number in the code is the amount of antibiotic in the disk in micrograms except for g-.25 250 mg and sxt 1.25 mg of trimethoprim and 23.75 mg of sulfamethoxazole.consistent with previous studies of animal microbiomesthe fish skin microbiome is diverse but not equitable being dominated by a few taxa.111617 the dominant five taxa com- prise 57.8 of all recovered sequences and the top eleven are 70.4 of all sequences figure 2. in total 648 eubacterial taxa were recovered from the four control fish with 419 of those taxa shared by at least two of the four fish.

