sample sizes are as follows seats n  9 tables n  6 children's tables n  5 well-child waiting rooms and n  9 sick-child waiting rooms children's seats n  6 magazines n  8 well-child waiting rooms and n  6 sick-child waiting rooms and books n  7.area include enterococcus faecium on a magazine pseudomonas aeruginosa on a children's book s. paucimobilis on a children's book and cronobacter sakazakii on a children's seat.

overall seats children's seats and children's books had the highest microbial burdens.microorganisms isolatedfrom the sick-child area s. pyogenes was isolated from a children's book and sphingomonas paucimobilis was isolated from a seat table children's book and magazine.

surfaces sampled included seats tables children's tables chil- dren's seats magazines and books.results we found seats children's seats and children's books to have the highest microbial burden.

samplethe pediatric infectious disease journal  volume 36 number 12 december 2017  e303sizes were as follows 9 seats in well- and sick-child waiting rooms 6 tables in well- and sick-child waiting rooms 5 children's tables in well-side waiting rooms 9 children's tables in sick-child waiting rooms 6 children's seats in sick- and well-child waiting rooms 8 magazines in well-child waiting rooms 6 magazines in sick-child waiting rooms and 7 books in well- and sick-child waiting rooms.sample processingto prepare samples for assessment 5 ml of sterile phosphate buffered saline was added to each conical tube containing a wipe and vortexed for 1 minute to allow microbes to transfer from the wipe to solution.

to reduce the risk of transmission of infectious diseases in the waiting area of a doctor's office the aap suggests limiting waiting times avoiding crowding encouraging proper cough etiquette and separating sick children from others as soon as possible.1213 while the current aap guidelines suggest separating sick children from others they do not suggest the need for separate waiting rooms for sick and well children.

children may not feel well enough to play with books on the sick side and parents may not want their children to touch these books due to fear of germs leading to lower levels of staphy- lococci on children's books in sick-child waiting areas.

a 4'' by 4'' template was placed on the surfaces of seats children's seats tables and children's tables to provide a measured area for swabbing.

sample sizes are as follows seats n  9 tables n  6 children's tables n  5 well- child waiting rooms and n  9 sick-child waiting rooms children's seats n  6 magazines n  8 well-child waiting rooms and n  6 sick-child waiting rooms and books n  7.the well-child waiting area with counts of 145 colony-forming unit cfu100 cm2 in the well-child waiting room and 678 cfu100 cm2 in the sick-child waiting room.

3. from the sick-child waiting areas there were 83.8 more enteric bacteria on the seat samples.microbial burden on various touch surfacesthe surfaces with the highest levels of microbial contami- nation were seats children's seats and children's books.

seats and children's books contained the highest levels of staphylo- cocci and children's books had the highest levels of gram-negative enteric bacteria.

sample sizes are as follows seats n 9 tables n  6 children's tables n  5 well-child waiting rooms and n  9 sick-child waiting rooms children's seats n  6 magazines n  8 well-child waiting rooms and n  6 sick-child waiting rooms and books n  7.figure 3. total numbers of enteric gram-negative bacteria grown on macconkey ii agar from samples in the well- and sick-child waiting rooms of outpatient pediatric offices.

children's books and seats had the highest levels of staphylococci with children's books in both sick- and well-child waiting areas and seats in sick-child waiting areas all exceeding the commonly acceptable level of staphylococci used by hospitals 100 cfu100 cm2.1415 these findings may be due to the behavior of the child in the waiting areas.

children's books in the well-child waiting area had the highest level of gram-negative enteric bacteria and were the only sample to exceed the commonly acceptable level of gram-negative enteric bacteria used in hospitals 100 cfu100 cm2.1415 these results suggest that these surfaces most notably seats and children's books are not regularly sanitized and would benefit from more regular cleaning and disinfection.

young children are known to often carry and readily transmit infec- tious organisms and their underdeveloped immune systems may leave them more susceptible to infection.10 disease transmission in young children can occur due to limited hand hygiene exces- sive drooling and placing objects into the mouth.11 many pediatric offices keep a supply of toys and books for children to play with while waiting that may serve as reservoirs for many pathogenic organisms.3-6 there are also many other contact surfaces that may harbor infectious microbes such as doorknobs tables tv remotes chairs and pens.preventing disease transmission in pediatric offices is impor- tant to prevent as well as limit the spread of infectious diseases in a vulnerable population.

however when comparing the table and children's book samples there were higher levels of total microbial growth in the well-child waiting areas compared with the sick-child areas.in comparison to the sick-child waiting areas the well-child waiting areas had 62.9 more staphylococci bacteria on the chil- dren's books fig.

