that means that if infants grow up with limited exposure to microbes such as those present in dog fur or those tracked into the house on muddy paws the child's immune system may deem those particles worthy of attack.this lack of exposure to microbes is espe- cially problematic in developed countries where people spend most of their timeindoors.

the dogs clearly impacted peo- ple's emotions and immune systems but not through the micro- biome says studyweight people tend to have heavier dogs putting a dog on a diet could in theory trans- fer 'weight-loss' microbes to its owners.or he says it may become possible to iso- late the beneficial dog microbes and create a drug that confers those benefits without hav- ing to own a dog.

kozyrskyj's team evaluated the various microbes present in 24 faecal samples collected between 2008 and 2009 from 4-month-old infants enrolled in the canadian healthy infant longitudinal development child cohort study.

researchers are beginning to suspect that dogs present one way for people to safely sully a baby's environment.it's premature however for doctors to start writing prescriptions for pooches.

what's more the team was now able to show that babies from families with pets 70 of which were dogs had higher levels of two types of firmicutes microbes -- ruminococ- cus and oscillospira which have been associ- ated with a lower risk of allergic disease and leanness respectively.

the team showed that an abundance of ruminococcus reduced the risk of allergic disease.pet exposure can reduce allergic disease and obesity later in life says hein min tun a veterinarian and microbial epidemiologist at the university of alberta who presented the team's findings at the international human microbiome consortium in hou- ston texas last november.future directionsone endeavour that may yield some insight into the interplay between the microbiomes of humans and dogs is knight's american gut project.

microbiome puppy poweronce anathema it nowseemsthata 'dirty' environmentcan enrich a baby's microbiome and lessen her or his likelihood of developing everything fromobesityto asthma.

again it seemsthatwe can rely on man's best friend to help us out.by sujata guptawo decades of research have made it clear that children who grow up with dogs have lower rates of asthma thanthose who do not.

of the24 babies 15 lived in houses with at least 1 dog or cat1.the researchers discovered that infants liv- ing with pets had a higher diversity of microbes in their guts as measured in their faeces than infants without pets.

a generation ago kozyrskyj's findings would have been cause for alarm.

microbes -- synonymous at the time with germs -- were thought to be best kept at bay.

a family history of allergies may even have prompted physicians to advise expectant par- ents to give up the family pet.but now says kozyrskyj it's known that the immune system develops alongside the gut microbiome -- the genetic material of the com- munity of microorganisms that live in the gut.

kozyrskyj's study was too small to draw any firm conclu- sions.

what hasn't been done is the type of intervention study that would definitively prove that if you got a dog it would improve your child's health says knight.

in 1989 david strachan an epi- demiologist now at st. george's university of london found that children who grew up with more siblings had lower rates of hay fever than those with fewer2.

