mean dfs scores did not differ among theters in saliva with clear subject separation and a nonsignificant tendency toward increased species richness in cluster 1 versusfigure 3. characteristics of biofilm clusters a clusters identified by hierarchical clustering of taxa in tooth biofilm samples b principal component analysis separation of subjects by cluster allocation c rarefaction curves showing species richness based on number of species by species per samplefor identified clusters d mean caries experience dfs in identified clusters p 0.012 and p 0.083 error bars denote se e majordifferences in abundances of taxa at the genus level in the tooth biofilm clusters.tdrefnsd number of deacnayoevda and filled tooth surfaces.discussionthe present study characterized the tooth biofilm and saliva microbiota in a group of swedish adolescents with a focus on profiles in caries-diseased subjects without s. mutans and clus- tering based on microbiome profiles.

specifically a few species were enumerated in subjects with s. mutans whereas those who were not colonized by s. mutans were characterized by a panel of significantly associated taxa data not shown.subsequently species in tooth biofilm that were associated with increasing levels of present caries higher des scores in adolescents without detectable s. mutans by illumina miseq or pcr were searched for with pls regression.

saliva and tooth biofilm taxa according to present caries des status are pre- sented in 1. s. mutans was the only species that was significantly p  0.005 more abundant in saliva and tooth biofilm samples from subjects with caries des 1 than those from caries-free des  0 adolescents although numeric increases in several other species were observed in the former samples relative to the latter samples.

species richness as indicated by rarefaction curves for tooth biofilm and saliva was identical for those with and without s. mutans in tooth biofilm and saliva b.global sequencing resultsafter quality filtering 9744159 reads with a mean read length of 426 bp were retained for saliva samples and 4829569 readswith an average read length of 424 bp were retained for tooth biofilm samples.

1 and 1 species detected by veillonella gp 2 and streptococcus gp 4. in the same group undetectable or extremely low levels of s. mutans were associ- ated with a panel of species n  29 including 2 species in the actinomyces dialister fusobacterium neisseria pepto- streptococcaceae 11g-7 tannerella and treponema gen- era fig.

2016. however targeting the v3-v4 region may have underestimated species in the firmicutes phylum such as streptococcus and lactobacillus.conclusions based on the present findings are as follows 1 subjects with high numbers of s. mutans were characterized by few associated taxa a result consistent with the ecologic con- cept of caries 2 the combination of lacking s. mutans and having caries was associated with a panel of acidogenic and aciduricacidophilic species including scardovia wiggsiae and 3 distinct tooth microbiota clusters were associated with caries prevalence.

these differences maytable 2. description of study participants by hierarchical cluster allocation based on tooth biofilm taxa detection from illumina miseq sequencing.data are presented as mean 95 ci unless stated otherwise.bmi body mass index dfs number of decayed and filled tooth surfaces pcr polymerase chain reaction s. mutans streptococcus mutans s. sobrinus streptococcus sobrinus.aadolescents reporting brushing at least once a day.bproportion with detection of the species by illumina miseq sequencing or pcr.explain the aforementioned difference.

2. moreover 34 additional taxa with vip values between 2.5 and 1.00 were identified including species that exhibit avid lactate production such as scardovia wiggsiae 2.due to the low number of adolescents with caries who did not have s. mutans in their saliva these analyses were not per- formed for saliva.microbiota clustering in tooth biofilm and salivahierarchical clustering of taxa in tooth biofilm samples revealed 4 main clusters fig.

the objectives of the present study were 1 to characterize the tooth biofilm and saliva microbiota of adolescents with caries disease with or without detectable s. mutans from tooth biofilm and saliva samples and 2 to assess taxa clustering in the tooth biofilm and saliva samples and relate this information to caries status.

2016.the aims of the present study were 1 to characterize the tooth biofilm and saliva microbiota of caries-diseased adoles- cents with or without detectable s. mutans from tooth biofilm and saliva samples and 2 to assess taxa clustering in the tooth biofilm and saliva samples and relate the results to caries prev- alence.

in subjects with caries experience high levels of s. mutans were associated with a few species and low levels with a panel of saccharolytic species.

to accomplish these objectives illumina miseq next- generation sequencing ngs was performed and the humantooth hard tissues due to acids produced by acidogenic and aci- duricacidophilic species in the mouth--affects 90 of the population worldwide and is thus one of the most prevalent diseases lagerweij and van loveren 2015. streptococcus mutans has a key role in caries development but several other acidogenic and aciduricacidophilic species may contribute to the disease process takahashi and nyvad 2011. in sweden a country where free dental care with a focus on prevention is provided until the age of 21 y the prevalences of caries ands.

hot 134 and hot 937table 1. description of study participants by caries status and streptococcus mutans detection in tooth biofilm and saliva in subjects with present caries in the enamel andor dentin.caries-affected subjects des  1data are presented as mean 95 confidence interval unless stated otherwise.bmi body mass index des number of present carious surfaces in the enamel and dentin dfs number of decayed and filled tooth surfaces pcr polymerase chain reaction pls partial least squares s. sobrinus streptococcus sobrinus.aadolescents reporting brushing at least once a day.bproportion with detection of the species by illumina miseq sequencing or pcr.

furthermore tooth biofilm microbiota could be used to separate subjects into 4 distinct clusters that signifi- cantly differed with respect to caries experience dfs.ideas regarding the role of bacteria in caries development have evolved--from considering all bacteria to be potentially harmful to a species-specific theory focused on mutans strep- tococci to the current ecologic concept that a low ph drives a balanced microbiota into dysbiosis characterized by the enrich- ment of acidogenic and aciduricacidophilic species takahashi and nyvad 2011 sanz et al.

in saliva but not tooth biofilm species richness rarefaction curves tended to be greater in caries-free adolescents than in adolescents with present caries however this difference was not statistically significant d.microbiota composition based on s. mutansand caries statustaxa associated with varying levels of s. mutans in tooth bio- film based on abundance as a continuous measure from ado- lescents with caries dfs 1 were searched for via pls regression.

