checked the bacterial filtration of a mixed anaerobic community of microorganisms in obturated root canals after post space preparation and found that the time of bacterial penetration changed from 48 to 84 days.in spite of the wide range of root canal obturating materials and current techniques the results of different studies  have demonstrated systematically that none of them is able to prevent completely the coronal or apical filtration which leads to the concept that a hermetic seal of the root canal is hardly attainable in endodontics.other studies to evaluate and analyze the effect of dif- fering irrigation intraroot canal protocols for the post space   have been carried out for the post space and its further effect on the adhesion and retention of the posts 40 for that the use of chemical agents such as naocl h o  edta chlorhexidine gluconate citric acid 10 20 and 50 orthophosphoric acid and a mixture of them has been proposed in order to get rid of the smear layer  but the scientific literature on the methods to remove the microorganisms from the cast posts before cementation is scarce.conclusionsthe casts posts get contaminated during their handling in the dental laboratory therefore their disinfection before being definitely cemented in the root canal is an indispensable req- uisite to avoid the migration of pathogenic microorganisms inside them.the sterilization process by autoclaving eliminated com- pletely the pathogenic microbiota without affecting the cast post shape and integrity that could compromise their final fitting.advisable measurements include the use of cast posts and adhesive systems to reduce the number of clinical meetings and to avoid the exposition of the obturation to the oral cavity.competing intereststhe authors declare that they have no competing interests.referencesp.

however the sequence of the later root canal preparation procedures techniques and instruments used for removal of root canal filling materials the length of the remaining materials and time of removal of root filling  takingof a post space impression fitting the intraradicular post in the root canal space and post cementation may allow the unintended contact of the remaining gutta-percha with saliva and bacteria the length of the intraradicular post and the residual filling are also important.

a contingency coefficient of 039 indicates that the association is not so strong but there is significance table discussionmany studies have confirmed the importance of the coronal leakage asa possible cause of an endodontic treatment failurebetween the filling material and the walls of the root canal reaching the periapical area in a relatively short time -  3.this situation worsens in teeth with extensive crown loss that implies the fitting of root canal posts due to the sequence of procedures for the post space preparation post impression adjustment of the post in the root canal and the fitting of temporary restorations what may allow the accidental contact of the radicular filling with saliva and bacteria the teeth indicated for posts often result in the alteration of the apical seal during the post space preparation inde- pendently of the method chosen for the elimination of the gutta-percha 24 .

metzger r. abramovitz i. abramovitz and m. tagger correlation between remaining length of root canal fillings after immediate post space preparation and coronal leakage journal of endodontics vol.

m. saleh i. e. ruyter m. haapasalo and d. orstavik survival of enterococcus faecalis in infected dentinal tubules after root canal filling with different root canal sealers in vitro international endodontic journal vol.

therefore an important role of the endodontic obturation is the formation of a physical barrier to prevent bacteria from coming into the apical region and periapical tissues .also the immediate and late post space preparation produced similar results in terms of the seal of the root canal and bacterial leakage independently of the filling and the preparation method used  5.nevertheless in any teeth the residual obturation is not able to prevent the bacterial filtration probably due to the presence of hollows in the interface between the filling mate- rial and the walls of the root canal.

demiryurek s. kulunk d. sarac g. yuksel and b. bulucu effect of different surface treatments on the push- out bond strength of fiber post to root canal dentin oral surgery oral medicine oral pathology oral radiology and endodontology vol.

pratt a. aminoshariae t. a. montagnese k. a. williams n. khalighinejad and a. mickel eight-year retrospective study of the critical time lapse between root canal completion and crown placement its influence on the survival of endodontically treated teeth journal of endodontics vol.

timpawat c. amornchat and w.-r. trisuwan bacterial coronal leakage after obturation with three root canal sealers journal of endodontics vol.

c. yucel e. guler a. u. guler and e. ertas bacterial penetration after obturation with four different root canal sealers journal of endodontics vol.

part 3. the effect of post space preparation on the apical seal international endodontic journal vol.

attam and s. talwar a laboratory comparison of apical leakage between immediate versus delayed post space prepara- tion in root canals filled with resilon international endodontic journal vol.

r. ricci and j. r. kessler apical seal of teeth obturated by the laterally condensed gutta-percha the thermafil plastic and thermafil metal obturator techniques after post space preparation journal of endodontics vol.

aydemir g. ceylan t. tasdemir e. kalyoncuoglu and i. isildak effect of immediate and delayed post space preparation on the apical seal of root canals obturated with different sealers and techniques journal of applied oral science vol.

lund coronal microleakage of endodontically treated teeth with intracanal post exposed to fresh human saliva journal of applied oral science vol.

