a lower con- tent of structural components was found in the np and hv leaf tissues and the recalcitrant lignin in raw np leaf was less than half of that in zl 72.2 vs 160.5 mgl.

in addition microbial participants in the macro- phyte decomposition in freshwater lakes remain little known al- though such degradation occurs widespread in aquatic ecosys- tems and stream environments.in this work we focused on the associated microbes in- volved in the decomposition of macrophyte leaf litters and their variations during the decomposition process to answer the fol- lowing questions first which types of bacteria and fungi take part in the decomposition of macrophyte leaf litters at thesurface sediment second what are the dominant factors reg- ulating the bacterial and fungal community composition for the decomposition of certain leaf litter third what are the primary relationships between bacteria and fungi during mi- crobial decomposition in situ experiments were set up to ad- dress these above questions and 150-day incubation of macro- phyte litters was established under universal environmental conditions to avoid heterogeneous effects on the process.

fungal ecol 20151462-70.lecerf a chauvet e. intraspecific variability in leaf traits strongly affects alder leaf decomposition in a stream.

the dynamics of nitrogen content phosphorous content and np ratio of the leaf litters have more influences on fungal communities than on bacteria.

in addition seven otus were specific to the np samples most of which were affiliated with chytridiomycota except for otu48f.relationships between microbial community leaf litter characteristics and environmental factorscombining the results of linear regression analysis with rda we found that the tp concentration in the ambient water and the c of the remaining litters were significantly correlated with both bacterial and fungal community compositions p  0.05 table and fig.

the cn ratio of the leaf litters and the cellu- lase activity were only significantly correlated with the bacterial community compositions p  0.05. the concentration of tn in the ambient water n p np ratio and the activity of xylanase were significantly related to the fungal community composi- tions during the decomposition process p  0.05. additionally from the rda biplots the whole time course could be divided into three stages the original stage 0 day the middle stage day 5 to day 30 and the last stage day 60 to day 90 fig.

in addition variation par- titioning analysis was also performed using the vegan pack- age in r to determine the relative effects of plant characteris- tics and water environment on bacterial and fungal community dynamics.deposition of dna sequencesall the bacterial and fungal dna sequences retrieved from dif- ferent sampling times were deposited at the european nu- cleotide archive and can be found under accession numbers pr- jeb21065 and prjeb21095 respectively.resultsdecomposition rates material compositions and enzyme activities of different macrophyte littersmore than 98 of the hv and np biomass in the mesh bags was lost after 90 days while 64 of the zl biomass was lost after 150 days fig.

this work contributes to the understanding of microbially involved carbon and nutrient cycling in macrophyte-dominated freshwater ecosystems.keywords macrophyte leaf litter decomposition bacteria fungi freshwater lakeintroductionmacrophyte leaf litter is the major source of energy-supporting food webs and is an important driver of carbon and nutrient cy- cling in aquatic ecosystems cadish and giller  wallace et al.

as an important source of autochthonous inputs leaf litter is a basic food for aquatic invertebrates which in turn provide energy for their predators at higher trophiclevels different leaf litters may impact the abundance of inver- tebrate species compson et al.

leaf litters with high nutrient content and a low concentration of recalcitrant compounds were de- composed faster by leaf consumers lecerf and chauvet .

in situ experiments 150 days were conducted to study the decomposition processes of macrophyte leaf litters zizania latifolia zl hydrilla verticillata hv and nymphoides peltata np.

the decomposition of np leaf litter was fastest whereas zl was slowest.

fresh leaves of the macrophytes zl hv and np were collected from a site n 3112i29.77i e 12025i33.65i in east taihu bay on 25 june 2015. samples were stored in sterile plastic bags on ice and transported to the laboratory within 24 h.in the laboratory the leaf tissues were rinsed gently with sterile deionized water to remove impurities on the surface and then centrifuged at 300 x g for 10 min at room temperature to remove the water.

10figure 1. the remaining biomass a and decomposition rate b for the three macrophyte leaf litters during the 150-day experiment.macrophyte litters which decreased in the order of hv  np  zl during the decomposition.

in general the stoichiometry dynamics of leaf litters were relatively similar between hv and zl which were different from np.

