hiv infection significantly alters total microbial colonization as well as the microbiota composition in the oral cavity and decreased cd4 cell counts have been associated with the presence of oral lesions .progressive hiv infection is characterized by the dysregulation of intestinal immunity that may also persist during highly-active antiretroviral therapy and the extent of the gut and oral microbiota dysbiosis correlates with markers of disease progression .thus interventions in hiv-positive patients are necessary to restore the integrity of the immune system of gut-associated lymphoid tissue galt and the use of probiotics may recover gut barrier functions remodel the microbiome and aid to decrease bacterial translocation and pro-inflammatory cytokine production thereby improving immune functions in hiv-infected subjects including during short-term antiretroviral therapy art -.mechanisms by which probiotics may exert their effects are strain-related and include the host's microbiota modulation improvement of mucosal barrier functions and modulation of the immune system .

probiotics can compete for nutrients and epithelial and mucosal adherence inhibit epithelial invasion counteract the inflammatory process by stabilizing and strengthening the gut microbiota responsible for the intestinal barrier integrity prevent microbial translocation lower mucosal and systemic inflammation stimulate production of antimicrobial substances - and promote intestinal immunoglobulin a responses to improve the immunological barrier function -.

probiotics are also helpful during antibiotic administration--reducing antibiotic-associated diarrhea--and in restoring normal gut permeability mechanical integrity and homeostasis .nutrients 2017 9 615 doisome effects attributed to probiotics have been proved by clinical trials and the effectiveness of probiotics has been demonstrated in disorders such as inflammatory bowel diseases ibd diarrhea allergies and the prevention of upper respiratory tract infections - and also in unbalanced conditions of intestinal flora induced by stress lifestyle host genetics inadequate food and exposure to environmental toxins -.many studies have demonstrated that the human immunodeficiency virus hiv has harmful effects on the human immune system mainly on the cluster differentiation cd4 t-cells and that hiv infection is characterized by gut microbiota dysbiosis an altered intestinal barrier and systemic inflammation -.

the proper defense activity of the epithelial barrier is supported by the microbiota which influences cell metabolism andproliferation maintenance and repair of barrier integrity nutrient acquisition and energy regulation inflammatory response and angiogenesis -.the intake of probiotics can reduce the risk of diseases associated with intestinal barrier dysfunction.

chronic tlr activation in hiv disease through recognition of translocated bacterial products andor viral products can cause the dysregulation of immune responses.probiotics as a new therapeutic approach that might improve life in hiv-positive subjectsalthough art and other pharmacological therapies are life-saving in hiv-positive subjects due to the suppression of plasma viremia the number of mucosal cd4 cells does not always fully recover and microbial translocation is still not under full control and remains associated with systemic immune activation and inflammation characterized by elevated pro-inflammatory cytokine levels as well as t and b cell activation and tight junction dysfunction between the epithelial cells of the mucosal barrier.epithelial barrier dysfunction measured by peripheral blood levels of intestinal fatty acid-binding protein and zonulin-1 predicted mortality in hiv infection even after adjustment for cd4 count .several hiv-affected patients may be effectively managed by controlling the hiv infection with high-efficacy and improved art while other hiv-positive patients have many side effects such as diarrhea and other gi symptoms associated with a worse quality of life leading to a discontinuation of treatment and the requirement of more complex approaches -.the hypothesis that probiotic administration protects the gut surface and can delay the progression of hiv infection to aids was proposed some years ago.

2010 305879.  tincati c. douek d.c. marchetti g. gut barrier structure mucosal immunity and intestinal microbiota in the pathogenesis and treatment of hiv infection.

in hiv infection the increased translocation of microbes and bacterial products from the intestinal tract may induce a systemic immune activation which causes further damage to the gut barrier function augmenting bacterial translocation and subsequently increasing systemic inflammation and in turn hiv progression .throughout the initial stage of hiv infection the immune system is unprepared for the attack of the virus which therefore reproduces at very high levels in the lamina propria spreading throughoutthe body.

reay e. guadalupe m. flamm j. prindiville t. dandekar s. rapid onset of intestinal epithelial barrier dysfunction in primary human immunodeficiency virus infection is driven by an imbalance between immune response and mucosal repair and regeneration.

logozzi m. viora m. belardelli f. fais s. human intestinal lamina propria lymphocytes are naturally permissive to hiv-1 infection.

th17 and th22 cells could play a role in amplifying the innate responses to hiv infection by enhancing the production of il-22 a critical cytokine for epithelial barrier maintenance which enhances epithelial regeneration inducing stem cell-mediated epithelial cell proliferation  and the expression of anti-microbial peptides .during hiv infection high levels of viremia are associated with an important th17 reduction in the gut the loss of mucosal th17 cells may be related to a decrease in mucosal restoration and an increase of microbial translocation from the gut lumen to the systemic circulation and immune hyperactivation contributing to the exacerbation of the infection and to opportunistic infections -.

thus researchers are beginning to consider intestinalmicrobiota as another organ of the human body with different functions such as maintenance of the epithelial barrier inhibition of pathogen adhesion to intestinal surfaces and modulation of the immune system .function and preservation of the intestinal barrierthe gi mucosal surface is the largest area of the body in contact with the external environment it plays a key role in blocking the access of potentially harmful substances.

the epithelium and the mucus layer lining the gut represent the host's first line of defense and the essential mechanical barrier that avoids contact between the internal and the external environments by blocking the passage of antigens toxins and microbial products thus acting as a component of innate immunity .the intestinal barrier is equipped with several levels of defense mechanisms to limit luminal antigen translocation.

the constant interplay between the microbiota the intestinal barrier and the mucosal immune system ensures the balance between permissive or tolerogenic responses to pathogens or food antigens .probiotics may induce a tolerogenic situation by modulating anti-inflammatoryregulatory cytokines such as il-10 and transforming growth factor tgf-b and dc functionality.

intestinal barrier a gentlemen's agreement between microbiota and immunity.

gut microbes 2014 5 688-695.  sharma r. young c. neu j. molecular modulation of intestinal epithelial barrier contribution of microbiota.

