plos one 2 e691.frochot v alqub m cattin al carriere v houllier a baraille f barbot l saint-just s ribeiro a lacasa m et al.

abnormal host-microbiota interactions are strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases ibd including crohn's disease cd and ulcerative coli- tis uc sartor and wu 2016. studies in mouse and zebrafish models of ibd have established that impaired intestinal epithelial cell iec responses to microbiota are a key aspect of disease pro- gression bates et al.

2007 kamada et al.

2013 marjoram et al.

genome-wide compari- son of transcript levels in intestinal tissue or isolated iecs from mice reared in the absence of microbes germ-free or gf to those colonized with a microbiota conventionalized or cv have re- vealed hundreds of genes that have significantly increased or de- creased mrna levels following microbiota colonization camp et al.

2014. interestingly many mouse genes that are transcrip- tionally regulated by microbiota have zebrafish homologs that are similarly responsive suggesting the existence of evolutionarily conserved regulatory mechanisms rawls et al.

2004. for example the protein hormone angiopoetin-like 4 angptl4 also called fiaf is encoded by a single ortholog in the mouse and zebrafish genomes and microbiota colonization results in significant reduc- tions in transcript levels in the intestinal epithelium of both host species backhed et al.

2004 camp et al.

this article published in genome research is available under a creative commons license attribution 4.0 international as described at 271195-1206 issn 1088-905117 genome research1195depletion and specific post-translational modifications of histone proteins within adjacent nucleosomes when acting as poised h3k4me1 or active h3k27ac enhancers creyghton et al.

2010. antibiotic administration can impact transcript levels and histone modifications in iecs thaiss et al.

2016 however it's un- clear if these changes are indirect effects caused by alterations to microbiota composition direct effects of the antibiotic on host cells or the effects of remaining antibiotic-resistant microbiota morgun et al.

2015. previous studies have shown that histone deacetylase 3 is required in iecs to maintain intestinal homeostasis in the presence of microbiota alenghat et al.

2013 and that overall histone acetylation and methylation in the intestine is altered by microbiotacolonization krautkramer et al.

2016. however the di- rect and specific effects of the microbiota on host crrs and subse- quent transcriptional responses in iecs remain unknown.our previous studies predicted key roles for one or more nucle- ar receptor nr tfs in microbial down-regulation of iec gene expression camp et al.

the earliest animals encoded a single nuclear receptor orthologous to hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 hnf4 nuclear receptor subfamily nr2a bridgham et al.

