the 180-day fermented sweet paste contained261.46 - 19.49 gkg reducing sugar and its ph value remained at around 4.65. this study has used the pcr-dgge technique to demonstrate the microbial community including bacteria and fungi in sweet paste and provides useful information biochemical properties about the assessment of the quality of sweet paste throughout fermentation.keywords sweet paste pcr-dgge microbial diversity fermentationintroductionsweet paste a traditional seasoning produced through the fermentation of flour by fungi and bacteria has been consumed for centuries as a flavoring ingredient and as the most important condiment of beijing roast duck in china.

a total of 84 volatile compounds have been identified from the chinese fermented flour paste a kind of sweet paste using simultaneous distillation and extraction and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry 1. the sauce quality is affected by the microflora involved the fermentation process employed and the basic ingredients used 3 4. compared with culture-dependent methods the culture-independent approach is based on the diversity of 16s rdna and 18s rdna genes which not only facilitates the detection of microbes that are difficult to culture but also can obtain an overview of the microbial communitymicrobial diversity during fermentation of sweet paste679structure 5 6. among the various culture-independent methods pcr-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge is one of the most widely used methods for analyzing microbial diversity.

recently pcr-dgge has been used to investigate the microbial communities involved in many foods or seasonings such as soy sauce 7 kimchi korean fermented cabbage 8 doenjang korean fermented soybean paste 9 soybean paste 10 daqu chinese liquor fermentation starter 11 wine and vinegar 12 13. it hasbeen shown that molds yeasts and bacteria including thek solution and shaking the mixture at 37degc for 30 min at 130 rpm.

the aim of the present study was to investigate the microbial diversity of a traditional chinese sweet paste using pcr- dgge and analyze the changes in its biochemical properties during fermentation.materials and methodssampling procedureskoji and mash samples were collected from a sweet paste factory fjloiautraic40odeg.c l-t4d5.degch4in5a.-a50pprof imoaitsetluyr1e0c0o0ntkegnotf wstaesamineodcuwlahteeadt wdriyth wah.

among the four identified fungi z. rouxii was the only one used in the commercial starter cultures for chinese soybean pastes 10. as the esters produced by fungal enzymes are responsible for the pleasant flavor and aroma of paste 34 all these fungi could be important for the sweet paste flavor.bacterial composition in koji and mashfig.

2017 274 678-684 httpsdoi.org10.4014jmb.1605.05011jmbmicrobial diversity during fermentation of sweet paste a chinese traditional seasoning using pcr-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresisping mao1 yuanliang hu1 tingting liao1 zhaoting wang1 shumiao zhao12 yunxiang liang12 and yongmei hu12state key laboratory of agricultural microbiology college of life science and technology huazhong agricultural university wuhan 430070 p.r.

chinathe aim of this study was to elucidate the changes in the microbial community and biochemical properties of a traditional sweet paste during fermentation.

owing to its unique and delicious sweet taste with a slight and particular caramel flavor sweet paste has also been used as a cooking sauce for dishes such as diced pork fillet or as a dip for green chinese onion and noodles 1. in the first phase of its manufacturing process steamed flour is mixed with the spores of aspergillus oryzae followed by cultivating the mixture known as the koji for approximately 2 days.

in the second phase the koji ismixed with an appropriate amount of brine to form another mixture known as the mash 2. after about 6 months of aging a red-brown flour sauce called sweet paste is produced.

ifsomrsexaanmd plleayliambposurtcahntasrolleeuscdonuorsitnogc mesenteroides tetragenococcus halophilus and enterococcus faecium were the predominant bacterial species and mucor plumbeus a. oryzae and debaryomyces hansenii were the most common fungal species in the doenjang samples 9.however little information is available about the microbial diversity in sweet paste using culture-independent methods.

a search of the ncbi database was conducted using the blast algorithm to determine the closest relative of the dna sequence.chemical analysis of sweet paste during fermentationtotal acid and amino-type nitrogen were determined by titration methods with some modifications 25. briefly 5.0 g of each crushed sample was diluted to 100.0 ml.

1 shows the dgge fingerprinting patterns of fungal 18s rdna of the fermented sweet paste samples.

the genus zygosaccharomyces was involved in the sweet paste manufacturing process during the main fermentation.

1. pcr-dgge profiles of fungal partial 18 s rdna gene fragments amplified from the koji and mash.denaturing gradient gel was used to analyze the pcrproducts amplified from dna directly extracted from sweet paste koji and mash.

in this study after accomplishing its hydrolytic function as a starter strain for sweet paste fermentation the predominance of a. oryzae was taken over by yeasts and lab during the late stage of fermentation.

