by contrast the gut is an internal mucosal tissues exposed to the bacteria of the diges- tive content.we aimed 1 to characterize the patterns of microbiota diversity and structure associated with mucosal tissues within and between the interbreeding species 2 to decipher the relative contribution of species tissue and sex to the defined microbiota composition and 3 to determine whether the core microbiota of each species in this stream corresponded to a host-specific signature by comparison with the core microbi- ota common to both chondrostoma species.materials and methodsfield samplingwe focused on two freshwater fish species from the chonsdrostoma species complex parachondrostoma toxostoma pt and chondrostoma nasus cn.

we then determined the core microbiota of each tissue for each species separately and for the chondrostoma species complex.we compared the abundance of bacterial phyla between mucosal tissues for each species and between species for each mucosal tissue.

b.finally the species x sex interaction was not significant for either of the indices considered shannon species x sex inter- action kh2  0.08 p  0.768 pd species x sex interaction kh2  0.03 p  0.859.divergence of microbiota composition and structurethe two first axes of the principal coordinate analyses highlighted consistently for the four dissimilarity metrics the divergence of microbiota composition relative to both mu- cosal tissue and species unweighted unifrac fig.

we performed nonparametric t tests 10000 permutations in qiime 1.9.1 with a threshold p value for significance after fdr correction of 0.05 .resultsmicrobial diversity within mucosal tissueswe observed an effect of mucosal tissue on the shannon and phylogenetic diversity indices but this effect differed between the two species studied shannon tissues x species interac- tion kh2  16.52 p  0.001 pd tissues x species interaction kh2  23.04 p  0.001. in c. nasus shannon diversity differed principally between external caudal fin and gills and internal midgut and hindgut tissues which had a less diverse micro- biota fig.

indeed the microbiota associated with the midgut and hindgut did not differ in composition whatever the species considered permanova p  0.05. finally pairwise permanova performed independently for each tissue showed a dissimilar- ity of microbiota composition between the two species studied permanova p  0.05 see details for each metric in sup- plementary table s4.the percentage of otus common to the two species was similar for each tissue at 23 to 27 supplementary fig.

the exploration of the microbiota in wild inter- breeding species is therefore important for an understanding of the fundamental biological and ecological processes of spe- ciation and range expansion and the ecology of invasion.in this study we explored this exciting research perspective in two interbreeding fish species parachondrostoma toxostoma p. toxostoma and chondrostoma nasus c. nasus.

we aver- aged sequence counts for the 1000 rarefied otu tables 34000 sequences and we then added mean otu sequence counts at the phylum level.we characterized the whole-tissue core microbiota as the bacterial phyla common to all tissue samples firstly for each species considered separately and then for the chondrostoma species complex.

a comparison of the hindgut microbiota of the two species highlighted a high abundance of ckc4 and fusobacteria in c. nasus and of cyanobacteria in p. toxostoma.discussionunderstanding the role of the microbiota as a reproductive barrier or a source of adaptive novelty in the fundamental biological phenomenon of speciation is an exciting new chal- lenge requiring explorations of microbiota variation in wild interbreeding species.

microb ecol 2018 75799-810 doi 10.1007s00248-017-1077-9microbiota diversity within and between the tissues of two wild interbreeding speciesemmanuel guivier1 jean-francois martin2  nicolas pech1  arnaud ungaro 1 remi chappaz1  andre gilles1received 5 may 2017  accepted 14 september 2017  published online 27 september 2017 springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstract understanding the role of microbiota as reproduc- tive barriers or sources of adaptive novelty in the fundamental biological phenomenon of speciation is an exciting new chal- lenge necessitating exploration of microbiota variation in wild interbreeding species.

we focused on two interbreeding cyp- rinid species chondrostoma nasus and parachondrostoma toxostoma which have geographic distributions characterized by a mosaic of hybrid zones.

in particular there was strong microbiota differentiation between external and inter- nal tissues with secondary discrimination between the two species.

these findings suggest that specific environmental and genetic filters associated with each species have shaped the bacterial communities potentially reflecting deterministic assemblages of bacteria.

we defined the core microbiota com- mon to both chondrostoma species for each tissue highlight- ing the occurrence of microbe-host genome interactions at this critical level for studies of the functional consequences ofelectronic supplementary material the online version of this article  contains supplementary material which is available to authorized users.

cyprinid species .

introgressive hybridizationintroductionmicrobes are one of the major cell components of verte- brates in terms of both their numbers thousands of billions of cells and their genomic diversity thousands of highly diverse species .

