2007. to detect whether mrgr expression had changed we calculated the ratio of mr to gr and found that mrgr decreased in gf crs mice compared with gf control mice p  0.01. a decrease was also found in spf crs mice p  0.01 figure 4f.discussionin our study behavioral tests showed that gf control mice exhibited an increase in the distance traveled and time spent in the center of the oft compared with spf control mice consistent with previous reports zeng et al.

as shown in figure 3a the crh levels of gf restraint-stressed mice exhibited a significantly greater increase than those of spf restraint-stressed mice p  0.05. the concentrations of acth in gf restraint-stressed mice homogenates were higher than in the gf control group p  0.01 and spf restraint-stressed mice p  0.01 figure 3b.

gf non-stressed control animals moved a significantly greater distance than spf non-stressed mice inthe center of the oft p  0.01 and gf stressed animals moved a greater distance than gf non-stressed mice p  0.001. mice in the spf crs group moved a greater distance in the center than those in the spf non-crs group p  0.001 figure 2b.

in addition the results revealed that gf control mice spent more time exploring than spf control animals p  0.001 and gf restraint-stressed mice explored more time than spf restraint-stressed mice p  0.001 in the center of the oft figure 2c.hormonal dysfunction of the hpa axiswe examined hormone and receptor levels in hypothalamic tissue.

however nr3c1 mrna expression in spf control mice was decreased compared with spf crs mice p  0.05 figure 4d and nr3c2 mrna expression was decreased in gf crs micecompared with spf crs mice p  0.01 figure 4e.

we tested germ-free gf mice and specific pathogen-free spf mice divided into four groups.

after crs initially gf restraint-stressed mice explored more time than spf restraint-stressed mice in the center and total distance of the oft.

moreover the crh acth cort and ald levels in hpa axis of gf restraint-stressed mice exhibited a significantly greater increase than those of spf restraint-stressed mice.

finally the crhr1 mrna levels of gf crs mice were increased compared with spf crs mice.

however the nr3c2 mrna levels of gf crs mice were decreased compared with spf crs mice.

all results revealed that spf mice exhibited more anxiety-like behavior than gf mice under the same external stress.

moreover we also found that gf mice exhibited significant differences in hormones and hormone receptors compared with spf mice.

then behavior was analyzed to assess whether differences in intestinal microbes play an important role in behavioral changes in mice.materials and methodsanimalsgf kunming km and spf km mice male 6 weeks old were provided by the experimental animal center of the third military medical university chongqing china and bred at the experimental animal center of the third military medical university gb 14922.2-2011. gf mice were kept and subjected to the crs protocol in sterile isolators until the beginning of the behavioral tests.

mice were deprived of food and water during restraint then given food and water after each restraint experiment zafir and banu 2007. mice were released into the cage to receive water and food immediately after the experiment.

ald levels in gf restraint-stressed mice were also increased in hypothalamus homogenates compared with gf control group p  0.05 and spf restraint-stressed mice p  0.01 figure 3d.changes in hormone receptor mrnato investigate the link between hormone levels and hormone receptor mrna receptor mrna in the mouse hypothalamus was quantified using qrt-pcr.

