c c c  whereas the other 3 cartels are associated with degenerate123order of the type c 14 c c  for which there are two most abundant building blocks.

If a strategy s or s0 converts both blocks i and j weijhavesf  hdijTh 14bc - bcis - dbc - bcjsTh 14 bdc - c Th0 A144f 0  hdijTh 14bc 0 - bcis - dbc 0 - bcjsTh 14 bdc 0 - c 0Th0 A145It is easy to see that dc - c 0Th  hdijTh 14 dc - c Th - dc 0 - c 0Th0 showing that the hyperplanepassing through dc - c 0Th2 with normal vector hdijTh separates the supply sectors of S and S 0 .

cextTh 14 do A124qq1s2Mqq-1 qpFor such c  metabolic classes Mq-1 and Mq are jointly optimal which implies by inequalitiesthat1111cdq-1Th s c - c s cdqTh A1251q11Moreover c is thus-defined as a function of cext  .

c Th 14 d A1141ps2Miand such that the following order relations holds11111111cd1Th s c - c  cd2Th s c - c  cd3Th s .

c and d For steady-state12concentrations cext ' cext only a pure-importer strategy can survive white dot in c. Thecorresponding set of supply rates s1 and s2 lie on a line labelled by a white dot in d. Increasing the supply rate s2 causes concentration cext to increase at the expense of cext until21a converter strategy can survive at c and c pink dot in c. Any further increase of s2 no12longer affects c and c and is solely dedicated to biomass growth.12extb.2s2ext11Appendix 7--figure 2.

Howeverour simulations suggest that at steady state the cell types that form consortia and achieve optimal growth belong to very specific metabolic classes these 'optimal' classes utilize only a few non- redundant metabolic processes that is many ai and kji are zero.Can we specify the network structures of optimal metabolic classes using rigorous optimization principles Exploiting the linearity of metabolic fluxes we adapt arguments from transport-network theory  to achieve this goal for an arbitrary number of building blocks see and Appendix 3.

If cell type s left accumulates block k via a 2-step conversion from block i there is always a more economical strategy s0 right that converts block i directly into block k. D Optimal metabolic classes can only have a single tree of direct conversions.contradicts the optimality of metabolic class M we can restrict our consideration to metabolic clas- ses other than M.Using the above approach we show that optimal metabolic networks process building blocks via non-overlapping trees of conversions  each tree originating from an imported building block  and each converted building block being obtained via the minimum number of conversions .

Since the existence of a more 'economical' strategy s0 contradicts the optimality of metabolic class M we can restrict our consideration to the metabolic classes other than M. In the following we will use the above procedure to show that optimal strategies belong to a very restricted set of metabolic classes.Network-theory analysisTopologically the most generic metabolic class is the one that utilizes every import and conversion enzyme i.e.

cext there exists a microbial cartel with p metabolic strategies.123pSpecifically these strategies belong to the metabolic class that converts building block 1 into the p - 1 other building blocks the metabolic class that converts building block 1 into the p - 2 least abundant building blocks and import building block 2 the metabolic class that converts building block 1 into the p - 3 least abundant building blocks and import building blocks 2 and 3 .

2 cext then at most p metabolic classes can coexist the metabolic classM1 that converts building block 1 into the p - 1 other building blocks the metabolic class M2 that converts building block 1 into the p - 2 least abundant building blocks and imports building block 2 the metabolic class M3 that converts building block 1 into the p - 3 least abundant building blocks and imports building blocks 2 and 3 .

