 123 12 14 and 1251 apc microbiome institute university college cork cork ireland 2 teagasc food research centre fermoy ireland3 school of microbiology university college cork cork ireland 4 department of neonatology cork university maternity hospital cork ireland 5 school of science engineering and food science university college cork cork irelandedited by christophe lacroix eth zurich switzerlandreviewed by clara g. de los reyes-gavilan consejo superior de investigacionescientificas csic spain abelardo margollesconsejo superior de investigacionescientificas csic spaincorrespondencer.

paul ross specialty section this article was submitted to food microbiologya section of the journal frontiers in nutritionreceived 06 april 2017accepted 26 september 2017published 26 october 2017citationwatkins c stanton c ryan ca andacknowledgment of the gut microbiome as a vital asset to health has led to multiple studies attempting to elucidate its mechanisms of action.

during the first year of life many factors can cause fluctuation in the developing gut microbiome.

host genetics maternal health status mode of delivery gestational age feeding regime and perinatal antibiotic usage are known factors which can influence the development of the infant gut microbiome.

thus the microbiome of vaginally born exclusively breastfed infants at term with no previous exposure to antibiotics either directly or indirectly from the mother is to be considered the gold standard.

moreover the use of prebiotics as an aid for the development of a healthy gut microbiome is equally as important in main- taining gut homeostasis.

however early life disorders such as necrotising enterocolitis childhood obesity and even autism have been associ- ated with an altereddisturbed gut microbiome.

448.doi abbreviations gi gastrointestinal ft full term pt preterm vlbw very low birth weight gos galacto-oligosaccharides fos fructo-oligosaccharides scfas short chain fatty acids nec necrotizing enterocolitis ms metabolic syndrome hfd high-fat diet asd autism spectrum disorder mia maternal immune activation ngps next generation probiotics lbps live biotherapeutic products.of the gut microbiome with recent studies focusing on similar microbial patterns between monozygotic twin pairs and their fraternal siblings  .

indeed the duration of breast feeding and introduction of formula feed can play a significant role in shaping the gut microbiome -.

thus it is imperative that we understand how the introduction of particular microbial species and prebiotic additives may restore balance and ameliorate the effects associated with gastrointestinal gi disorders.gi microbial development at birthmany studies have begun to focus on the development of the infant gut microbiome over time -.

described the impact of delivery mode on the pt gut microbiome and found no significant change in microbial diversity during the first 100 days of life.maternal-infant transmissionthe acquisition of microbial strains may occur through multiple different pathways.

nine genera have previously been identified as part of the core breastmilk microbiome including streptococcus staphylococcus serratia pseudomonas corynebacteria ralstonia propionibacterium sphingomonas and bradyrhizobiaceae .

moreover research focused on the placental microbiome has found significant correlations between the placental and oral microbial communities .

however supporting evidence for the existence of a distinct placental microbiome is currently lacking .

thus microbial colonization of the infant gut may be strongly influenced by the maternal microbiome originating from several different niches including the vaginal tract breastmilk and possibly the placenta.

