research was carried out to verify the hypothesis that the moisture conditions and fertility ofahabitat maysignificantly influence the dynamics of the abun- dance of individual components of the microbial loop as well as the number and intensity of correlations between bacteria flagel- lates testate amoebae and ciliates.the objectives of this study were 1 to determine the long- term dynamics of microbial communities bacteria flagellates testate amoebae and ciliates before and after restoration of the carbonate fen and use these data to examine their potential as bio-indicators 2 to analyse the relationships between compo- nents of the microbial loop and 3 to assess the effect of hy- drological physical and chemical factors on microbial commu- nity structure before and after restoration of the fen.methodsstudy areaa study of the effect of restoration processes on microbial loop functioning was carried out in the carbonate-rich fen bagno bubnow poleski national park eastern poland 51deg n 23deg e fig.

the densities of testate amoebae were significantly higher after restoration f  1.56 p  0.04. in the central habitat we observed similar correlations a significant positive effect of restoration was noted for densities of testate amoebae f  6.55 p  0.045 and a negative effect for densities of bacteria and ciliates f  8.99 and 4.58 p  0.032 and 0.044 respectively.principal component analysis pcain the lagg pca axis 1 l  0.517 and axis 2 l  0.255 explained 77.3 of the total variance in the composition of the microbial loop.

we observed the same tendencies in the variability of densities of all of microbial groups a potential increase in the density of testate amoebae after restoration a decrease in the densities of bacteria and ciliates and no significant influence of restoration on the abundance of flagellates.redundancy analysis rdaredundancy analysis performed in order to specify the direct relationships between environmental variables and abun- dances of testate amoeba and ciliate species showed differ- ences before and after restoration.

after restoration we observed positive cor- relations between ciliate density and densities of bacteria and testate amoebae as well as between densities of bacteria and testate amoebae.discussioneffects of restoration on environmental factorsthe restoration procedures caused a significant increase in the water level in the carbonate fen.

the rise in ph values aftertable 5 list of significant variables rda monte carlo permutation test determining the abundance of testate amoebae and ciliate species in lagg and central part habitats before and after restorationlagg testate amoebaeparameters before restorationafter restorationfrance .

9 redundancy analysis rda biplot for lagg habitat showing en- vironmental variables and species of a testate amoebae before restoration b testate amoebae after restoration c ciliates before restoration and d ciliates after restoration.

10 redundancy analysis rda biplot for central part habitat show- ing environmental variables and species of a testate amoebae before res- toration b testate amoebae after restoration c ciliates before restorationand d ciliates after restoration.

riemann  demonstrated that an additionof nutrients had no significant effect on the abundance of hnf in eutrophic systems.effects of restoration on testate amoebae abundance and compositionthe number of testate amoeba species was much lower before the restoration of the fen and again in 2011. during these periods the lowest surface water levels were noted as well as low oxygen concentrations and high concentrations of bio- genic compounds.

this is reflected in the increased abundance and diversity of testate amoeba i.e.

testate amoebae and ciliates are the most common microbial communities in bogs.

until recently only a few studies had discussed the ecology of testate amoebae and ciliates in fens -.

sub- samples of 10 ml were condensed on 0.8 mm-pore-size black nucleopore filters.abundance of testate amoebae and ciliate community com- position were determined by utermohl's method .

testate amoebae and ciliate samples 3 samples whole sam- ple  500 ml were sedimented for 24 h in a cylinder stoppered with parafilm and then the upper volume of 400 ml was gently removed.

morphological identification of testate amoebae and ciliates was mainly based on works by foissner and berger  foissner et al.

biovolumes of each microbial community were estimated by assuming geometric shapes and converting to carbon using the follow- ing conversion factors bacteria 1 mm3  5.6 x 10-7 mgc flagellates 1 mm3  2.2 x 10-7 mgc ciliates and testate amoe- bae 1 mm3  1.1 x 10-7 mgc .data analysesone-way anova was used to test the effect of restoration on physical and chemical water parameters and on the densities of components of the microbial loop in the lagg and central habitats.

