showing that the microbiota growth that follows a blood mealis responsible for an activation of the imd pathway impacting sinv loads in the mosquito.activation of the imd pathway by caspar silencing increases sinv load and decreases microbiota levelsnext we evaluated the effect of imd activation in the amount of sinv and the microbiota levels in infected mosquitoes.

.the imd pathway is transcriptionally activated by the gut microbiota after a blood mealin order to evaluate how the gut microbiota contributes to the immune activation observed after blood-feeding and sinv infection which accompanies the blood- feeding mosquitoes were treated with antibiotic for 3 days before receiving a blood meal with or without sinv.

we couldnot discard the role of the microbiota itself in the impact of sinv infection outcome.the imd constitutive activation by depletion of caspar the negative regulator of this pathway leads to a decrease in the microbiota levels and allows sinv replication in the mosquito fig.

here we suggest that the constitutive activation of imd pathway by caspar silencing has an indirect impact sinv loads in the mosquito by controlling microbiota levels that antagonize sinv infection.in anopheles gambiae blood-feeding itself can trigger an anticipatory immune response against plasmodium berghei infection however different from our re- sults this anticipatory immune response is not due to microbiota proliferation but has a hormonal component probably triggered by ecdysone release that follows blood ingestion here we show evidence of the reciprocal tripartite inter- action proposed by ramirez et al.

these results point to a tripartite interaction between the microbiota the imd pathway and sinv where the microbiota levels are controlled by the imd pathway and antagonize sinv replication in the mosquito.

the proliferation of the microbiota is crucial to limit sinv infection after blood ingestionconsidering that antibiotic-treated mosquitoes presented lower expression levels of aarel2 we analyzed sinv in- fection levels under these conditions.

aegypti imd pathway against sinv infection is highly dependent on the microbiota present in the midgut.

where the prolifera- tion of the microbiota could both activate the immune response mainly the imd pathway and through this acti- vation limit sinv infection.

aarel2 expression is induced in the midgut in response to sinv infectionnext we evaluated the impact of sinv infection in the transcription profile of the three main pathways using carcass midgut and ovaries 4 days after an infectious meal.

microarray analysis revealed that sinv infection also downregulates toll pathway related genes 4 days post-infection suggesting that the regulation of this pathway by viral infection is similar between flaviviruses and alphaviruses so far the effector molecules of toll pathway involved in direct antiviral dengue response are still unknown.

to activate imd constitutively we depleted the negative regulator of this pathway caspar using rnai gene silencing followed by sinv infection.

these findings suggest a role of imd pathway during sinv infection.

aegypti midgut 4 days post sinv infection revealed a decrease in expression of ubi- quitin ligase genes suggesting not only the inhibition of toll pathway activation but also the activation of the imd pathway .

aegypti microbiota depletion using antibiotic treatment leads to an increase in dengue virus infection  indicat- ing that this tripartite relationship influences the efficiency of the mosquito immune system and impacts directly the outcome of the infection .here we investigated the activation of the three main pathways of ae.

aarel1 and aastat mrnas were not modified by antibiotic treatment even during a sinv infection suggesting their expression is not dependent on the microbiota fig.

