we also found that butyrate levels in the terminal ileal pps of spf mice were higher than those in the jejunal pps of spf mice and terminal ileal pps of abx-treated mice.

here we found that terminal ileal pps of specificpathogen-free spf mice have fewer nkp46 ilc3s than jejunal pps while there was no difference in nkp46 ilc3 numbers between terminal ileal and jejunal pps in antibiotics abx-treated mice.

a the levels of scfas in jejunum j and terminal ileum ti were determined by gc-ms. b the levels of butyric acid were measured in jejunal pp and terminal ileal pp from spf mice and abx-treatment spf mice.

when we measuredthe distribution of cd4cd25foxp3 tregs in jejunal and terminal ileal pps and the lp from spf mice we found at least 10-fold decreased numbers of tregs in terminal ileal pps compared with those in jejunal pps of spf mice fig.

importantly the absolute number of ilc3s in the terminal ileal pps from abx-treated mice was 6015 - 2000figure 1. terminal ileal pp has fewer ilc3s than jejunal pp.

indeed the level of butyrate in terminal ileal pps of spf mice was significantly higher p  0.05 than that in jejunal pps and abx treatment significantly reduced p  0.01 the level of butyrate in terminal ileal pps similar to that in jejunal pps fig.

we next analyzed whether restoring the butyrate level in abx-treated mice induced changes in the ilc3 distribution in terminal ileal pps and found that the frequency of ilc3s was decreased significantly in jejunal and terminal ileal pps by the oral administra- tion of butyrate supplementary fig.

when we prepared pp cells from terminal ileum and jejunum of transgenic ot-ii mice and monitored the proliferation of cd4foxp3- or cd4foxp3 t cells induced by ova peptide treatment after carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester staining ova-specific cd4foxp3- t cells in terminal ileal pps where low numbers of ilc3s and tregs were present proliferated significantly more p  0.001 than ova-specific cd4foxp3 t cells in a dose-dependent manner fig.

however the influence of t cells can be excluded using balbc nude mice because the distinctive pattern of ilc3 distribution in pps of the terminal ileum and jejunum was observed similarly in nude mice supplementary fig.

to further confirm the gpr109a-mediated signaling mediated by butyrate rorgtgfpnkp46 ilc3s were sorted from terminal ileal pps of abx-treated mice or jejunal pps of spf mice.

d the lin-rorgtgfp cells were prepared from terminal ileal pps of abx-treated spf mice or jejunal pps of spf mice and stimulated in vitro with each indicated concentration of nab for 2 hr.

a distributions of cd4cd25foxp3 tregs in pps of the terminal ileum ti pp pps in the jejunum j pp and the lp of spf mice upper panel and abx-treated mice lower panel were analyzed by flow cytometry.

b absolute numbers of cd4cd25foxp3 tregs in pps of the terminal ileum ti pp pps in the jejunum jpp and lp of spf mice upper panel and abx-treated mice lower panel are shown.

to eliminate the influence of microbiota mice were treated with antibiotics abx for 4 wk and these abx-treated mice showed enlarged ceca compared with those of spf mice which is a reflection of the decrease in microbiota by abx treatment fig.

thus we suggest that nkp46 ilc3s are negatively regulated by microbiota-derived butyrate in terminal ileal pps and the reduced ilc3 frequency is closely associated with antigen-specific immune induction in terminal ileal pps.the gastrointestinal tract has a unique immune system that is specialized to the gut microenvironment.

