these results indicated a potential association between sfb abundance in the intestinal microbiota and induction of pro-inflammatory t cell subpopulations.co-housing restores sfb content and shifts the t cell ratio in the peripheryin order to investigate whether differences in t cell polarization were indeed a cause of sfb presence within the intestinal micro- biota we co-housed sfb negative jax and sfb positive mice for 2 weeks a. due to the coprophagic behavior sfb-negative mice were able to naturally recolonize themselves with sfb from the cohoused sfb-positive donor mice b. we then performed flow cytometric analysis to examine t cell subpopulations follow- ing sfb-colonization.

1. this suggests that differ- ent commercial breeders supply mice with a significantly different microbiota composition.specific microbiota differences are associated with t cell polarizationafter detecting specific differences in the gut microbiota of mice from different breeder sources we investigated the associated polarization of immune cells within the peyer's patches pp of the intestinal lymphoid tissue.

these results propose that the microbiota composition particularly the presence of sfb strongly influencesthe ability of cd28sa treatment to expand specific thelper cell sub- populations and therefore affect disease outcome.discussionour study has addressed the ongoing question of to what extent do microbiota differences between conventional laboratory mice obtained from different breeding sources impact the physiological immune homeostasis and the neuroinflammatory response after brain injury.

therefore to finally investigate the t cell polarization changes induced by microbiota differences observed between breeders we performed a microbiota recolonization experiment by co-housing of sfb-negative and sfb-positive mice resulting in efficient sfb recolonization of sfb-negative mice.

we then tested the impact of these microbiota differences between commercial breeders on the immunological outcome of an exemplary immunotherapeutic approach using cd28 superago- nistic antibodies cd28sa in a murine stroke model.resultsc57bl6 mice show clear breeder-dependent gut microbiota differencesdespite being housed in the same environment and fed the same diet 3 weeks prior to analysis we observed significant differ- ences in the microbiota composition of mice from the three inde- pendent breeder sources charles river laboratories cr taconic biosciences tac and harlan laboratories har.

however due to the lack of information on the microbiota composition in animals used in the previous studies investigating cd28sa in experimental stroke--particularly as mice housed in conventional animal facilities do not necessarily represent the microbiota composition of the original breeder--it cannot be con- cluded whether microbiota-dependent immune priming is the exact reason of failed reproducibility.in light of the so-called ''reproducibility crisis which draws increasing attention in diverse research fields  the findings of the present study introduce the gut microbiota as a rel- evant factor in the comparability of experimental studies.

due to the intimate interaction of the microbiota and immune system not only do we agree with previous publications which stress the importance of the microbiota composition in terms of reproducibil- ity  in addition we clearly show that the neuroinflammatory response is also affected by differences in microbiota composition between three commer- cial breeders.

th1 and th17 are neurotoxic and con- tribute to the inflammatory collateral damage after stroke  the immunosup- pressive subpopulation of regulatory t cells treg have been shown to be neuroprotective after experimental brain ischemia0889-1591c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.. the mechanisms of t cell polarization before entry into the brain has been a key question in the field of stroke-immunology for example either the polarization towards a neuroprotective treg or harmful il- 17th17 cell phenotype.

we particularly analyzed the polarization of treg foxp3 and th17 il-17 cells f. we observed high percentages of pro-inflammatory th17 cells in mice received from tac--in contrast to mice received from cr sfb- deficient which demonstrated high treg cell counts but low pro- inflammatory th17 cell counts g. this was demonstrated clearly in the ratio of foxp3 to il-17 cells showing a much lower ratio when sfb's were present in the breeder mice.

p  0.05   p  0.01   p  0.001   p  0.0001. cr  charles river laboratories tac  taconic biosciences har  harlan laboratories.microbiota-associated t cell polarization affects immunotherapeutic efficacynext we investigated whether the microbiota-dependent t cell polarization between commercial breeders would affect stroke outcome of an immunotherapeutic treatment.

5c but resulted in a differential breeder-dependent t cell polarization in the pp a. specifi- cally cd28sa effectively induced treg cells in sfb positive mice from tac and har but failed to induce this neuroprotective t cell population in cr mice resulting in a significantly shifted balance between pro-inflammatory th17 and immunosuppressive treg cells.

we identified selective expansion of a t cell subpopulation upon treatment with the co- stimulatory cd28sa which was determined by the microbiota- dependent pre-polarization of the t cell population between mice of different breeder source.

spleens were mashed through 40 mm cell strainers and treated with red blood cell lysis buffer.

in recent years increasing attention has been drawn towards the gut microbiota as a key factor in immune cell polariza- tion.

this study demonstrates the major impact of microbiota differences on t cell polarization in mice during ischemic stroke conditions and following immunomodulatory therapies.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.introductionstroke is a devastating disease and the second most common cause of death .

