thus transurethral catheterized urine specimens accurately sample the bladder and are thus the appropriate urine collection method for investigation of the bacteria presentreceivedmarch 2 2017 accepted after revision august 15 2017doi issn 2157-6998.copyright c 2017 by thieme medical publishers inc. 333 seventh avenue new york ny 10001 usa.tel 1212 584-4662.in the urinary bladders of women the female bladder microbiota.13to determine whether bacterial dna detected by 16s rrna gene sequencing originated from live bacteria within the bladder our group developed an enhanced quantitative urine culture protocol that detects bacteria in the vast majority of catheterized urine samples deemed no growth by standard clinical microbiology urine culture meth-ods.1415 thus standard urine culture does not detect thepresence of a large number of bacterial species including most uropathogens.16given compelling enhanced culture and dna sequence evidence that the female urinary bladder of perimenopausal women is not sterile we questioned the sterility of urine obtained from the bladders of younger pregnant women.

as per clinical protocol a portion of the urine sample was placed into a bd vacutainer plus cs preservative tube and sent to the research laboratory for standard urine culture and enhanced quantitative urine culture assessment.

when a cluster had no predominant organism it was called a diverse urotype.16s rrna gene sequencingdna isolation protocols and 16s rrna gene sequence ana- lysis on the illumina miseq illumina san diego ca havetable 1 culture protocolsabbreviation cna colistin-naladixic acid.afor standard urine culture we struck 0.001 ml of urine onto 5 sheep bloodagar plate bap and macconkey agars bd bbl prepared plated mediawhich were incubated aerobically at 35degc for 24 hours.

if no growth was observed the culture was reported as no growth indicating no growth of bacteria at the lowest dilution that is 11000.bfor enhanced quantitative urine culture we struck 0.1 ml of urine onto bap chocolate and cna agars bd bbl prepared plated media which wereincubated in 5 co2 at 35degc for 48 hours.

the culture profile b divided into 13 profiles s. epidermidis l. gasseri s. anginosus l. jensenii c. glabrata e. faecalis l. iners l. johnsonii c. coyleae a. schaalii g. vaginalis and a mixed profile termed diverse.table 3 frequency of profiles using either sequence or enhanced quantitative urine culture dataabbreviation bdt below detection threshold.aa diverse profile indicates a diverse community lacking a single predominant organism.enterococcus n 14 2 or the family enterobacteriaceae which contains the species e. coli n 14 1. only one patient had no predominant organism thereby that individual's urotype was considered to be diverse.the microbiome of participants with a lactobacillus ur- otype was significantly less diverse than gardnerella urotype subjects as determined by the shannon diversity index and inverse simpson index which measure both richness and evenness table 4. the microbiomes of participants with a gardnerella urotype were more even as measured by the pielou's index.

1a.enhanced culture resultsenhanced quantitative urine culture detected live microbes in the majority of participants 66.7 3451 similar to that proportion of samples that were positive by sequencingtable 3 fig.

thus with respect to the major dominant profiles sequencing and en- hanced quantitative urine culture obtained similar results.the combination of 16s sequencing and enhanced quan- titative urine culture detected bacteria in 80 4151 of participants and reached the same conclusion regarding urotype in 64 3351 of all the participants.

2.standard urine culture results versus enhanced quantitative urine culturestandard urine culture results were available for all partici- pants.

the relative abundance or total classified cfuml per individual culture profiles a are compared with the relative abundance or total classified reads per individual of the sequencing profiles b. the culture classification is given at the genus level to better compare with sequencing results.

this high rate of microbe detection stands in stark contrast to the low rate of detection by the standard urine culture method which had a 100 false-negative rate for identification of bladder microbes compared with enhanced quantitative urine culture.

critically standard urine culture did not identify several known or emerging uropathogens.the evidence of live microbes in the bladders of most pregnant women questions the notion that the urine oftable 5 uropathogens detected by enhanced quantitative urine culture in the urine samples of 15 patientsabbreviation pprom preterm premature rupture of the membrane.pregnant womenissterile.

further research is needed to understand how the microbiota might also play preventative or protective roles and to determine the dysbiotic effects of antibiotics.the strengths of this investigation are the prospective design the use of catheterized urine specimens and the useof the robust combination of enhanced quantitative urine culture and 16s rrna sequencing techniques.141522 togetherthese techniques illustrate the limited view provided by the standard urine culture which was specifically designed to detect fast growing bacteria with limited nutrient require-ments and no aversion to oxygen especially e. coli the most common cause of uti.

in contrast enhanced quantitative urine culture utilizes larger urine volumes varied media and incubation states and longer incubation times to also detect anaerobes slow growing bacteria and those that requirespecial nutrients14 table 1. as enhanced quantitative urineculture can classify bacteria to the species level the total number of culture profiles was much greater than the number of profiles detected by sequencing which typically classifies only to the genus level.

even given these discrepancies with sequen- cing data however the culture data clearly shows the pre- sence of more than 103 cfus of many different organisms including known and emerging uropathogens.as this study also documents the poor performance of the standard urine culture these findings offer us the opportu- nity to improve our understanding of the maternal bladder microbiota especially as it relates to clinically relevant definitions of asb.

of particular concern was the finding of bacteria by our enhanced quantitative urine culture techni- que that had gone undetected by the standard urine culture method.

