Shelf life of fish is affected by several factors including storage temperature fish species initial microbial contamination and packaging conditions  .

Even though different applications for sensor-based quality monitoring of fish have been examined   there is still a limited number of studies focusing on direct and real-time quantification of the VOC profile produced in the package headspace during storage time aiming at the development of intelligent packaging technologies.Efficient quality monitoring of fish spoilage calls for fast non- destructive and sensitive methods.

Microbiological spoilage of fish and fish products.

In marine fish stored under refrigerated aerobic conditions Pseudomonas and Shewanella spp.

Detection of early spoilage thus requires that low concentrations of relevant VOCs can be detected.ConclusionsDifferent packaging and storage conditions affect the evolution of fish microbiota and the generated VOCs in the package head- space.

The obtained results directly represent the quality deterioration of fish and thus the reality that a sensor needs to be able to respond to during storage.Packaging and storage conditions affect the evolution of the VOC profile and should be considered in the selection of spoilage in- dicators.

On the later days of storage over 88 was detected under both MAP conditions at 4 oC.Under MA conditions the relative abundance of Photobacterium was highest during intermediate storage and decreased to some extent by the end of storage thus increasing community diversity Supplementary Table 4.

Since the Photobacterium genus was highly abundant under all storage conditions differences in its metabolism could contribute to the observed differences in the VOC profiles between the tested storage conditions.

De Meulenaer  P. Ragaert  F. Devlieghere a Laboratory of Food Microbiology and Food Preservation Department of Food Safety and Food Quality Part of Food2Know Faculty of Bioscience Engineering Ghent University Coupure Links 653 B-9000 Ghent Belgiumb Paper Converting and Packaging Technology Department of Materials Science Faculty of Engineering Sciences Tampere University of Technology PO Box589 FI-33101 Tampere Finlandc Research Group Food Chemistry and Human Nutrition Department of Food Safety and Food Quality Part of Food2Know Faculty of Bioscience EngineeringGhent University Coupure Links 653 B-9000 Ghent Belgiumd KERMIT e Research Unit Knowledge-based Systems Department of Mathematical Modelling Statistics and Bioinformatics Part of Food2Know Faculty of Bioscience Engineering Ghent University Coupure Links 653 B-9000 Ghent Belgiume Center for Microbial Ecology and Technology CMET Ghent University Coupure Links 653 B-9000 Ghent Belgiuma r t i c l e i n f oArticle historyReceived 5 May 2017 Received in revised form 20 October 2017Accepted 23 October 2017Available online 24 October 2017KeywordsAmplicon sequencingPhotobacteriumSIFT-MSSensorVolatile organic compounda b s t r a c t During fish spoilage microbial metabolism leads to the production of volatile organic compounds VOCs characteristic off-odors and eventual consumer rejection.

Monitoring of early spoilage thus calls for sensitivity for low VOC concentrations.c 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.IntroductionRaw fish is highly perishable due to the intrinsic properties of the product and inevitable microbial activity.

