the recovery of carbon atoms varied in between 70 and 100 depending on the biomass produced that explains the loss and .mucus-induced trophic chains of a. muciniphila and butyrate producers a. caccae e. hallii and f. prausnitzii results in butyrate production after the mon- oculture experiments a series of cocultures of approximately equal amounts of a. mu- ciniphila and butyrate producers were set up to test whether sugars and acetate produced as a result of mucin degradation by a. muciniphila would enable butyrate production of the chosen isolates.

on top of this kinetic modeling showed the likelihood for the dominant butyrate producers such as anaerostipes coli and eubac- terium hallii to use short-chain fatty acids for butyrate production by utilizing lactate and acetate via the butyryl coenzyme a coaacetate coa transferase route the main metabolic pathway for butyrate synthesis in the human colon .in this study we test the hypothesis that a. muciniphila can serve as the keystone species supporting a syntrophic network in a mucosal environment.

this leads to the microbial synthesis of vitamin b12 12-propanediol pro- pionate and butyrate which are beneficial to the microbial ecosystem and host epithe- lial cells.keywords akkermansia muciniphila anaerobes butyrate cross-feeding intestine microbiome mucus syntrophyhe mammalian intestinal tract harbors complex microbial ecosystems that have been forged by millennia of coevolution between microbes and hosts.

d measurement of a. muciniphila metabolites on mucus-containing media without the addition of vitamin b12 or with vitamin b12 from e. hallii or pseudovitamin b12 from e. hallii.

hence the b12 vitamer produced by e. hallii is in the pseudovitamin b12 form and can be used by other intestinal microorganisms but it has lower affinity than vitamin b12 for the human intrinsic factor .discussionin spite of the great interest in metabolic conversions in the human gut there is limited information on actual product sharing mechanisms and trophic dependencies of individual members of the intestinal microbiota.

while the affinity of human intrinsic factor for pseudovitamin b12 is lower than that for vitamin b12 it is equally bound by transco- balamin and haptocorrin human corroid factors  and is not antagonistic to vitamin b12  and it may be transported without intrinsic factor .

moreover it has been shown that pseudovitamin b12 produced by lactobacillus reuteri also an abundant mouse intestinal bacterium can alleviate vitamin b12 deficiency in mice  .in summary the present data indicate that pseudovitamin b12 is biologically active in a. muciniphila propionate metabolism that involves methylmalonyl-coa mutase .

furthermore these butyrate production levels were significantly higher than the observed butyrate pro- duction without added acetate .weak growth of a. caccae on l-fucose was observed after the addition of acetate but without detected metabolite production.

fur- thermore in coculture experiments with a. muciniphila and f. prausnitzii low levels of butyrate were measured accompanied by the presence of cells and 16s rrna copies of this butyrate producer as opposed to monocultures of the organism on the same medium table s2a.

these results further indicate that the association of butyrate clostridium cluster xiva and iv species could indeed yield the production of butyrate as a result of a microbial metabolic network in the mucosal layer which is poor in usable carbon sources.the fact that a changed metabolic profile for a. muciniphila in the presence ofe.

.morrison dj mackay wg edwards ca preston t dodson b weaver lt. 2006. butyrate production from oligofructose fermentation by the hu- man faecal flora what is the contribution of extracellular acetate and lactate br j nutr 96570 -577.munoz-tamayo r laroche b walter e dore j duncan sh flint hj leclerc m. 2011. kinetic modelling of lactate utilization and butyrate production by key human colonic bacterial species.

research articlemicrobial metabolic networks at the mucus layer lead to diet-independent butyrate and vitamin b12 production by intestinal symbiontsclara belzera loo wee chiaa steven aalvinka bhawani chamlagainb vieno piironenb jan knolac willem m. de vosadlaboratory of microbiology wageningen university and research wageningen the netherlandsa department of food and environmental sciences university of helsinki helsinki finlandb nutricia research utrecht the netherlandsc rpu immunobiology faculty of medicine university of helsinki helsinki finlanddabstract akkermansia muciniphila has evolved to specialize in the degradation and utilization of host mucus which it may use as the sole source of carbon and ni- trogen.

the results indicate the existence of trophic chains on mucus between a. muciniphila and the butyrate- producing f. prausnitzii and a. caccae while true bidirectional metabolic cross-feeding dependent on vitamin b12 was observed between a. muciniphila and e. hallii indicative of a mutualistic symbiosis.resultsgrowth and metabolism of intestinal butyrate producers on mucus or mucus- derived sugars.

asterisks indicate a significant difference p  0.05 compared to the condition without vitamin b12 added.media supported growth and butyrate production for all three tested species .a.

keystone mucolytic bacteria such as a. muciniphila degrade mucin glycans resulting in oligosaccharides mainly galactose fucose mannose and glucnac and scfas acetate propionate and 12-propanediol that can be used for growth as well as propionates butyrate and vitamin b12 production by cross-feeding partners.

