root and leaf associated communities were found to have more with-in group variance or dispersion than sediment communities p  0.001 which could indicate that stabilizingcategorydiversity metricpseudo-fr2p permselection is acting on these sediment communities.

however leaf and root microbial communities do not differ significantly based on sampling location possibly indicating that these plant tissue associated communities are more stable than the sediment communities in regards to location.

although we speculate that plant microbe interactions are important for seagrasses little is known about how the roles of microbial communities associated with marine plants may affect plant health and what abiotic and biotic factors affect the composition of these communities.

one possible explanation for the correlation between the sediment communities and eelgrass shoot density may be the release of exudates and oxygen by the roots of the eelgrass which would increase in concentration with eelgrass density.random forest analysis confirmed differences between sediment microbial communities taken from the inside of the patch the edge and unvegetated sediment from outside the patch .

this is further supported by a recent study which focused on surface-associated communities that observed that the microbiomes of seagrass and seaweed species were host specific but had broad-scale functional similarities  .differences in microbial communities between sample types leaves roots and rhizosphere sediment and possible functional implications we used a bonferroni corrected kruskall-wallis test to test for differences in relativeabundance of the orders between sample types.

thiotrichales which are enriched in the sediment are generally filamentoussulfur-oxidizing bacteria  and are postulated to be dominant sulfur-oxiders in salt marsh sediments .variation in sediment microbial communities between locationsthe analysis of diversity metrics reported above also showed that there are significant differences in the sediment microbial communities from different locations inside a eelgrass patch the edge of a patch and outside of a patch.

the abundance of myxococcales inside the eelgrass patch aligns with the expectation of higher prevalence of organic matter degradation inside the patch as opposed to surrounding unvegetated sediment.environmental drivers of sediment communitiesin addition to investigating the taxonomic composition of the microbial communities of sediment collected from the inside edge and outside of eelgrass patches we decided to test for correlations between observed community differences and environmental factors to elucidate key factors that may be driving the microbial communities in eelgrass patches.a variety of abiotic factors were significantly different between locations including cn ratio tic dissolved oxygen ph and sediment size fractions 710 um and 63 um anova p  0.05 and .

major findings include that distinct microbial communities are associated with the leaves and roots of the plant sediment associated communities are correlated with host plant densityand specific microbial taxa are found to have high relative abundances on particular tissues.

open accessmicrobial communities in sediment fromzostera marina patches but not themarina leaf or root microbiomes vary in relation to distance from patch edgecassandra l. ettinger sofie e. voerman jenna m. lang john j. stachowicz and jonathan a. eisen1 genome center university of california davis ca united states2 climate change cluster university of technology sydney sydney australia 3 school of life sciences university of technology sydney sydney australia 4 trace genomics san francisco ca united states5 department of evolution and ecology university of california davis ca united states6 department of medical microbiology and immunology university of california davis davis ca united statesabstractbackground.

in recent years there has been a growing appreciation of the potential importance of the microbial communities i.e.

we characterized and then compared the microbial communities of root leaf and sediment samples using 16s ribosomal rna gene pcr and sequencing and associated environmental parameters from the inside edge and outside of a single subtidal z. marina patch.

microbial communities differed significantly between sample types root leaf and sediment and in sediments from different sites inside edge outside.

2017 microbial communities in sediment from zostera marina patches but not the z. marina leaf or root microbiomes vary in relation to distance from patch edge .

marina plants.our interest in the microbiota for this study is driven by our overarching goal of developing z. marina as a model for studies of microbial communities associated with marine plants.

terrestrial plants like arabidopsis   corn   rice   and poplar  have been shown to have distinct microbialcommunities on the inside endophytes and on the surface epiphytes of plant leaves and roots as well as in the surrounding soil or sediment rhizosphere .these communities can vary across different stages of plant development   and with local environmental conditions.

