if we are able to identify and synthesize these signal molecules this will significantly advance our ability to harness this approach for restoration of degraded drylands because this will not only improve colonization and survival of bio- crust communities but will also foster nutrient cycling and make conditions more suitable for the establishment and development of vascular plants.while numerous scientific social and political chal- lenges still need to be overcome before approaches based on microbial biotechnology and synthetic biology can be implemented under natural conditions they hold an enormous potential to improve the restoration of degraded dry lands.

1e pushing the community far from dangerous tipping points leading to degraded ecosystem states.other advances in microbial biotechnology could also be used to enhance the outcome of dryland restoration activities and thus the achievement of sdg 15. for instance it would be possible to engineer pseudomonas a common soil bacterium found in drylands that is also a model system for many microbial engineering applica- tions to deliver activities of interest that could ameliorate the harsh environmental conditions typical of dryland soils and to transfer the corresponding genes to other microorganisms.

microbial biotechnology published by john wiley  sons ltd and society for applied microbiology.this is an open access article under the terms of the license which permits use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.microbial biotechnology to combat desertification 1251to the attributes of vascular plant and microbial commu-degradation in drylands sole'et al.

2016. while there have been successful restoration experiences using these biocrust constituents in dry lands from the usa israel and china the use of biocrusts in dryland restoration is far from being wide- spread weber et al.

2007. this number will substantially increase in the coming decades given the forecasted increases in aridity due to climate change and to the high population growth of most developing countries.here we focus on the contributions of microbial biotechnology to improve the restoration of degraded drylands and to combat desertification which are an integral part of the sustainable development goal sdg 15 of the 2030 agenda which aims to 'protect restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems sustainably manage forests combat deser- tification and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss.'

understanding the factors driving and the consequences of land degradation and desertification and restoring degraded dryland ecosystems constitutes key priorities for environmental agencies land managers and stake- holders worldwide fao 2015. these tasks are also extremely important to ensure global sustainability as drylands are the largest earth0s biome occupy 45 of the global terrestrial surface and desertification is esti- mated to already affect over 250 million people mostly living in developing countries reynolds et al.

maestre and cortina 2004. the failure of restoration actions can enhance erosion rates and further reduce plant cover processes that can trigger accelerated changes leading to ecosystem collapse reynolds et al.

2016. once a given external parameter such as increasing aridity andor grazing pressure is slowly increased an irreversible transition from a vegetated and functional to a degraded desertified ecosystem can occur reynolds et al.

2016. current restoration efforts using bio- crusts have focused on the growth in the laboratory greenhouse and subsequent inoculation in the field of biocrust constituents such as mosses and cyanobacteria weber et al.

in addition in situ manipulations of the soil microbiome have the potential to restore microbial biomass and activity which is usually low in degraded dryland soils using the emerging technology of microbial cocktails and microbiome engineering singh and tri- vedi 2017. such approach involves the use of a micro- bial consortium probiotics in combination with stimulants prebiotics that can activate dormant micro- biota to enhance nutrient cycling which in turn would encourage the activities of other biocrust partners fur- ther improving soil fertility stability and overall health.a 2017 the authors.

microbial biotechnology as a tool to restore degraded drylandsfernando t. maestre1ricard sole'234 and brajesh k. singh561departamento de biologia y geologia fisica y quimicainorganica escuela superior de ciencias experimentales y tecnologia universidad rey juan carlos c tulipan sn 28933 mostoles spain.2icrea-complex systems lab universitat pompeufabra dr aiguader 88 08003 barcelona spain.

6global centre for land-based innovation western sydney university penrith 2751 nsw australia.summarywe briefly review how microbial biotechnology can contribute to improve activities aiming to restore degraded drylands and to combat their desertifica- tion which are an integral part of the sustainable development goal 15 of the 2030 agenda.

microbial biotechnology offers notable promise to improve restoration actions based on the use of biocrust- forming engineered cyanobacteria which play key roles in maintaining ecosystem structure and functioning in drylands worldwide.

2015 and offersnities reviewed in maestre et al.

2007. such catastrophic shifts are likely to occur in drylands which are known to display alternative states in their structure and functioning maestre et al.

