2013. the relative contribution of arctic microbial ch4 production to global ch4 sources however remains highly uncertain.current approaches to modelling ch4 emissions for themost part neglect microbial characteristics nazaries et al.

however despite recent progress the degree to which soil microbial com- munity characteristics control arctic ch4 emissions remains alarmingly unclear.in the research presented here the relationship between the soil microbial community soil chemistry and pmp are investigated at two remote sites on the alaska north slope representing two distinct arctic bioclimate subzones raynolds et al.

these results indicate that the effect of ferb on methanogenesis in these soils is probably through a greater role of dominant rather than rare ferb species and that species evenness of this group is an important characteristic.taken together this study reveals relationships between patterns of microbial diversity microbial community struc- ture and methane production in arctic soils and lends support for the notion that community diversity or func- tional groups each taken alone may be insufficient to adequately describe relationships between the biological community and ecosystem processes hector et al.

2011 much of which is thought to originate from increasing microbial ch4 production kirschke et al.

2005. microbial biodiversity is correlated with many environmental characteristics naeem and li 1997. specifically for ch4 cycling metha- notroph species richness is associated with methane oxidation rates ho et al.

2013 and there is a general shift in dominance in the methanogen community from methano- bacteriacea to methanosarcinacea with decreasing microbial a-diversity and increasing soil depth frank-fahle et al.

2006. this work builds on previous research done in barrow alaska representing the remain- ing arctic bioclimate subzone on the alaska north slope and lays the groundwork for a more comprehensive under- standing of soil microbial ch4 cycling across the entire north slope region lipson et al.

approximately 0.25 g of soil was used for dna extraction with the mobio powersoil dna extraction kit mobio carlsbad ca and dna was quantified spectrofluorometrically with picogreen reagent thermo fisher waltham ma.iron reducing bacteria ferb were inferred from gene abun- dances corresponding to blast hits from each respective group using the m5nr annotation source 1e25 maximum e-value cutoff 60 minimum percent identity cutoff and a mini- mum alignment length cutoff of 15. soil microbial taxonomy is highly correlated with whole metagenome functional gene pro- files fierer et al.

2012 and microbial taxonomy has been previously inferred from whole metagenomes from coral reefs dinsdale et al.

n 5 32. colour figure can be viewed at microbial communitymicrobial diversity has been previously linked to soil ph fierer and jackson 2006 chu et al.

finally this work begins to addresses the complex relationship between soil chemistry and functional microbial groups the understanding of which will be critical to informing the next generation of landscape-level and global ch4 models xu et al.

11 619 594 6916 fax 11 619 594 5676.vc 2017 society for applied microbiology and john wiley  sons ltdintroductionnear surface atmospheric warming in arctic regions is occurring at a rate that is approximately double that of the global mean serreze and francis 2006 solomon et al.

2007 hansen et al.

the arctic con- tains large reservoirs of carbon sequestered in permafrost soils tarnocai et al.

2009. as temperatures rise these carbon reservoirs will become vulnerable to degradation and subsequent emission as carbon dioxide co2 and methane ch4 schuur et al.

