2 marchapril 2017table 1statistics of the hmp samplestypes their similarity will be augmented through the diffu- sion process and if two vertices i and j are different their similarity will be decreased through the process.the final similarity matrix fusing all data types are defined simply as 1 mpm v141p dvth20spectral clusteringwe cluster the microbiome samples in the fused similarity matrix by spectral clustering 26. let l be the normalized laplacian matrix of the final similarity matrix pand l 14 i - d-12pd-12.

given a p times s matrix x and t times s matrix y the basic idea of jnmf is to find k basis vectors w in rpxk and v in rtxk for both profiles that share a common coefficient matrix h in rkxs.

if we have v views of data we write the corresponding weighted matrix as advth.to construct a consensus weighted matrix advthfrommulti-view dataset the simplest way is to average the sin- gle-view weighted matrix.

section 4 provides the discussion and future directions.data and methodsnonnegative matrix factorizationgiven the p times s matrix x nmf is seeking to find two matrices with lower dimensions w and h with dimension p times k and k times s respectively where k  p s is thenmf can also be used for classification.

naturally the col- umns of coefficient matrix h can be used to assign member- ship labels for each sample and dually the rows of w can be used to classify variables or features.joint nonnegative matrix factorizationin microbiome studies it is common to investigate func- tional or phylogenetic composition profiles for microbial community studies.

if we regard w1 w2 ...  wk which are the columns of w  as the basis vectors and hij as the coefficients then xj can be represented by the linear addi- tive sum of basis space spanned by w1 w2 ...  wkkxjhijwi4idaw wh th d1 - athv vhthijlaplacian regularized joint nonnegative matrix factorizationmany studies of nmf approach and its extensions have used regularization to penalize the coefficient matrix h or w .

microbiome data representation by joint nonnegative matrix factorization with laplacian...355manifold structure of data 14. in this study we introduce laplacian regularization on jnmf and we derive the updat- ing formula for this new method.2.3.1lj-nmf objective function and optimizationthe objective function for lj-nmf is defined by adding a laplacian penalty terms to jnmf a1kx - whk2 th a2ky - vhk2 1method also called affinity graph construction 24 because it is a widely used method in most manifold learning algorithms 25. the testing of the graph con- struction methods is interesting but not the principle scope of this study.assume that we can get a distance matrix d among data points from x euclidean distance is used in this paper.

this technique is to define the weight matrix ad1th using  where l is the laplacian matrix of the constructed weighted graph from data.

similarly we can also obtain the weighted matrix ad2th from data matrix y .

however the procedure may not consider the complementarity among different datasets.thus we propose to use a similarity network fusion snf22thtrd00 010dvthfw th th trdcv th th trdxh thand the partial derivatives of l with respect tow  v and hmethod to generate the consensus weighted matrix a .2.4 similarity network fusionare l 14 -2a xw 0 th 2hww 0 th f11in this part we will explain the details of snf 25. after defining affinity matrixa for each view of data a normal-l 14 -2a xv 0 th 2hvv 0 th c12pij 148 2aij  jik146 i wik17 v 2 1 j 14 il 14 -2a w 0x - 2a v 0y 2a hw 0w13the normalization is free of the scale of self-similarity in the diagonal entries and avoids numerical instabilities 25.th 2a2hv 0v th 2hl th cby using karush-kuhn-tucker kkt condition fij cijandto define a kernel matrix which could be used to mea-sure local affinity wang et al.

2 marchapril 2017353microbiome data representation by joint nonnegative matrix factorization with laplacian regularizationxingpeng jiang xiaohua hu and weiwei xuabstract--microbiome datasets are often comprised of different representations or views which provide complementary information to understand microbial communities such as metabolic pathways taxonomic assignments and gene families.

data integration methods including approaches based on nonnegative matrix factorization nmf combine multi-view data to create a comprehensive view of a given microbiome study by integrating multi-view information.

in this paper we proposed a novel variant of nmf which called laplacian regularized joint non-negative matrix factorization lj-nmf for integrating functional and phylogenetic profiles from hmp.

the experimental results indicate that the proposed method offers an efficient framework for microbiome data analysis.index terms--human microbiome nonnegative matrix factorization multi-view clustering data integration data representationc1introductiont was very hard to study the functional and phylogenetic diversity of a microbial ecosystem before the introduction of metagenomics sequencing 1. in recent years the cost of high-throughput sequencing technology including metage- nomics sequencing and rrna 16s or 18s target sequencing has decreased dramatically.

novel methods and software are urgently needed in this field to disentangle complex microbial community using large-scale microbiome data.non-negative matrix factorization nmf also has been applied on analyzing microbiome datasets 12 13. nmf can be viewed as a data representation method--samples or variables could be represented by the linear additive combi- nation of a little number of nmf basis or a clustering method--samples or variables can be assigned a member- ship label by the basis vector of nmf 14. nmf has an advantage that it is a soft-clustering approach by which a sample can be classified into several clusters if it tends to1545-5963 c 2015 ieee.

