specific gut microbes that may contribute to neoplastic progression in colorectal cancer have also been identified and may provide a novel diagnostic and therapeutic angle on cancer prevention and early disease management.

this is not surprising since many unknown microbes are introduced with the fecal inoculum some of them may mitigate inflammation but others may induce th17 cellular responses.

for example we may be able to identify ibd conditionssubsets with altered dysbiotic microbiomes and differentiate them from ibd conditionssubsets with eubiotic microbiomes that may be mostly related to altered immune function.

these findings could lead to new treatment approaches since certain patients may be more suitable for therapeutic strategies targeting the intestinalmicrobiome while others may benefit more from current interventions targeting immune system dysfunction or a combination of the two.can you describe an example of diagnostic applications of the microbiome in human diseasejoel dore chronic conditions for which microbiome signatures associated with the disease have been documented are numerous today and recurrent features are emerging.

diagnostic applications that target microbial communities or metabolites may enable individually tailored treatment approaches.as we consider new therapeutics based on the microbiome can you elaborate on new drug targets in human diseasejoel dore numerous changes in our everyday life and clinical practice may compromise our well-being as an intact ecosystem.

the diagnosis of human infections and selection of antimicrobial agents may be refined in the context of the microbiome.

for example rapid detection of clostridium difficile in stool specimens in cases of recurrent c. difficile infection may be tested in parallel with stool-based 16s rrna gene sequencing to evaluate the extent of dysbiosis or cooccurrence of other enteric pathogens.

microbial metabolites may provide useful microbial biomarkers to monitor effective treatment in chronic infections such as recurrent c. difficile associated disease.these parallel evaluations could aid medical decision-making regarding selection of antimicrobial agents or fecal microbiota transplantation fmt.6advances in microbiome discovery are also altering the field of human microbiology for noncommunicable chronic diseases with a microbial component.

such findings may change the nature of colorectal cancer screening and early detection.

branched chain amino acids may serve as microbial biomarkers for disease prevention ormitigation.

target genes proteins or metabolites within human microbes may be considered as part of holistic laboratory medicine.

dysbiosis may be detected via the presence of microbial signatures or alterations in the symbiotic relationships between man and microbes.

for example in ibd and functional gastrointestinal disorders we may see a shift from phenotypic clinical diagnoses and classifications which are currently based on identifying and characterizing abnormal physiology and clinical symptomatology to etiologic and pathomechanistic classifications based on new knowledge of the role of the microbiome in these diseases.

examples would be the avoidance of antibiotics that would remove adjuvant bacteria and the introduction of live biotherapeutics.similar developments may be expected in other clinical conditions such as cirrhosis in patients awaiting liver transplantation especially when they do not respond to steroids.

finally since we may consider symbiosis of humans and microbes as a healthy reference it would seem relevant to examine models of diagnostic value combining features of both humans and microbiota.

