i nhibition of usa300 growth by s. epidermidis- laden peg-dma hydrogels peg-dma has been used as a biomaterial for creation of hydrogels 19. to assess the capability of peg-dma for encapsulate the s. epidermidis peg-dma mixed with aps and temed was used to suspend the s. epidermidis atcc12228 bacteria.

in vivo anti-usa300 activity of probiotic peg-dma hydrogels the probiotic peg-dma hydrogels a circle with a diam- eter of 0.8 cm were constructed by encapsulating s. epi- dermidis atcc12228 108 cfu in hydrogels comprising 10 peg-dma 0.001 aps and 0.1 temed in phenolred-free rich media.

the results demonstrate that the s. epidermid- is-laden peg-dma hydrogels possess the probiotic activ- ity against the usa300 skin infection.4 discussionpeg-dma has been widely used as biomaterials for den- tal and cartilage repair and bone regeneration 20. it exerts a minimal toxicological response and can be modi- fied to be either bio-inert or biocompatible in vitro 21 and in vivo 22. each peg-dma monomer can covalently link to up to four other peg-dma monomers and the resulting hydrogel polymer forms a covalently crosslinked branched network.

f abrication of s. epidermidis-laden peg-dma hydrogelshydrogels were formed by mixing 10 peg-dma or acrylamide promega corporation madison wi with 0.001 ammonium persulfate aps promega and 0.1 tetramethylethylenediamine temed in 500 ml tbs con- taining phenol red 0.002 wv.

s1 a significant decrease in the values of both ph and od560 was detected when s. epidermidis but not usa300 was cultured in the presence of peg-dma indicating the peg-dma fermentation of s. epidermidis occurs.

2 the colonies of usa300 with solid media supplemented with peg-dma are much less than those in solid media supplemented with no peg-dma.

identification of scfas produced by peg-dma fermentation by gc-msto identify the scfas in the ferments the s. epidermidis bacteria were incubated in phenol red-free rich media in the presence or absence of 2 peg-dma for two days.

5b can utilize the peg-dma as a carbon source for fermentation peg-dma or acrylamide hydrogels were suspended withwithout the s. epider- midis for two days in the presence of phenol red.

5a the color change of phenol red from red-orange to yellow was observed in s. epidermidis-lad- en peg-dma but not acrylamide hydrogels demonstrat- ing the probiotic activities of s. epidermidis-laden peg- dma hydrogels.to evaluate the probiotic activities of peg-dma hydrogels in vivo the usa300-infected skin wounds in the dorsal skin of icr mice were covered by the peg- dma hydrogels with or without s. epidermidis encapsula- tion for 24 h fig.

6b the number 7.5 - 1.2 x 105 cfu of usa300 bacteria in the wound covered by a peg-dma hydrogel with s. epidermidis was significantly less than that 5.0 - 1.5 x 106 cfu in the wound covered by a peg-dma hydrogel without s. epi- dermidis.

peg-dma hydrogels have been utilized for encapsulation and stabilization of various compounds 19. to the best of our knowledge our findings represent the first report to demonstrate that s. epidermidis but not usa300 can fermentatively metabolize peg-dma to various scfas fig.

pelobacter propionicus a gram-negative and strictly anerobic bacterium can undergo fermentation of a peg with molecular weights of 1000 inside the bacteria to produce acetate and propion- ate 24. the diol dehydratase and peg acetaldehyde lyase in fermenting bacteria can degrade peg 17. in other laboratories results obtained with anaerobic bacte- ria favored peg degradation outside the bacteria 25. in fact an extracellular enzyme which can depolymerize long chain pegs has been identified 26. although the reasons for distinctive capabilities of peg-dma fermen- tation in s. epidermidis and usa300 are not clear it is possible that two bacteria differentially express the enzymes involved in degradation of peg-dma.

there is no difference in the usa300 growth in wounds applied with or without a peg-dma hydrogel indicating that peg-dma hydrogel itself did not influ- ence the colonization of usa300 in wounds supporting information fig.

though in contrast probiotic treatments which are relatively independent on patients' health matters have little or no interference with commensal microbes and may complement antibiotics or peg-dma on the growth of various skin microbes have been not examined in this study we believe that peg-dma will not systemi- cally induce an imbalance of the human microbiome since it is applied locally onto a skin wound.

besides the function of peg-dma as a sfi we believe that when peg-dma is used with antibiotics it has potential to be an antibiotic adjuvant 39 to augment the fermentation activity of s. epidermidis and reduce the effective doses of antibiotics decreasing the risk of generating resistants.

