b Production of H2O2 by E. coli and L. reuteri n 3 wells per group representative of 2 independent experiments two-tailed t-test p  0.001 mean-s.e.m.. c Production of H2O2 byendogenous Lactobacillus species compared to L. reuteri n 7-8 colonies per group one-way ANOVA with Dunnet's multiple comparisons p  0.001 mean-s.e.m.. d Fecal H2O2 levels in naive stressed and L. reuteri treated stressed mice n 10 naive 11 stressed and 7 stressed L.reuteri mice per group one-way ANOVA with Dunnet's multiple comparisons p  0.05 p  0.001 mean-s.e.m.. e Correlation between Lactobacillus and H2O2 levels in naive and stressed mice n 5 mice per group Spearman r test p  0.01.f qRT-PCR quantification of ido1 expression in the intestines of naive stressed mice and L. reuteri treatedstressed mice relative to GAPDH.

b qRT-PCR quantification of Lactobacillus levels in fecal samples of L. reuteri or broth-control treated mice relative to 16S rRNA n 5 representative of 2 independent experiments two-tailed t-test p  0.05 mean-s.e.m.. c Forced swim test quantification of escape behavior of naive and stressed mice treated with either L. reuteri or bacteria-free broth n 9 per group representative of 2 independent experiments 2-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni post-hoc p  0.01 mean -s.e.m.. d Nestlet shredding test quantification of escape behavior of naive and stressed mice treated with either L. reuteri or bacteria-free broth n 9 per group representative of 2 independent experiments2-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni post-hoc p  0.01 mean-s.e.m.. e Principal component analyses of serum metabolite composition after untargeted metabolomics assay n 5 mice per group showing twoi or three ii group comparisons shaded areas represent 95 CI.

h Forced swim test quantification of escape behavior of naive mice treated with L-kynurenine or saline control n 10 saline and 8 L-kynurenine mice per group representative of 2 independent experiments two-tailed t test with Welch's correction p  0.05 mean-s.e.m.. i Forced swim test quantification of escape behavior of stressed mice treated with either L. reuteri alone or L. reuteri andL-kynurenine n 7 per group one-way ANOVA followed by Dunnett's post-hoc p  0.01 mean-s.e.m..dysregulation by probing for ido1 mRNA in the intestine.

Treatment with L. reuteri modified the metabolic profile of stressed mice to an intermediate profile suggesting that some of the stress associated metabolic alterations may be a consequence of decreased Lactobacillus levels while others may be a direct effect of L. reuteri administration 3eii.

f Normalized MS peaks of tryptophan -kynurenine pathway metabolites in the sera of naive stressed and L. reuteri treated stressed mice n 3-5 per group 2-way ANOVA p  0.001 mean-s.e.m..To get an insight into the potential mechanism of Lactobacillus-supported resiliency we performed untargeted metabolomics analysis of serum samples to identify if and how metabolites composition was altered after chronic stress.

Moreover several studies have shown that inhibiting IDO1 activity such as with the small molecule 1-methyl tryptophan has potent effects in ameliorating depressive-like behaviors both in chronic stress and inflammation-induced sickness behavior models.The inhibition of IDO1 by Lactobacillus-derived ROS is likely just one of the mechanisms through which Lactobacilli and L. reuteri in particular contribute to host physiology and modulate behavior.

Treatment with probiotic L. reuteri ameliorates the escape behavior induced by chronic stress.Experimental design of L. reuteri supplementation regimen.

We next measured peroxide levels in the fecal contents of the stressed mice and discovered that H2O2 levels were decreased in the stressed mice more importantly and in agreement with our hypothesis therapeutic administration of L. reuteri significantly raised the level of H2O2 in vivo F2 25 9.907 p  0.0007 4d.

n 4 naive 7 stressed and stressed L.reuteri mice per group 1-way ANOVA followed by Dunnett's post-hoc p 0.01 mean-s.e.m.. g Experimental design of L. reuteri and or kynurenine administration.

L. reuteri also improved the compulsive behavior observed in stressed mice as measured by the nestlet shredding test  Fstress1 31  13.7 p 0.0008 Ftreatment1 31  5.508 p 0.0255 Bonferroni post-hoc tbroth 3.861 tL.reuteri 1.412.

