using electron microscopy we identified twisted stalks as well as fe-rich particles with uncharacteristic biological morphologies in all mats  .community structures and diversityconsidering all iron mats six phyla dominated 1 total relative abundance proteobacteria 43.1 thaumarchaeota 16.7 bacteriodetes 9.6 planctomycetes 8.5 euryarchaeota 7.4 and chloroflexi 6.7. however we observed a large variability in class-level commu- nity structure between the different iron mats .

this is summarized in a conceptual model of the geobiological interactions taking place at the twvf .comparison with iron mats from other locationson the taxonomic level the microbial iron mats analysed in this study share some of the char- acteristics of other iron mats around the world-i.e.

given the large variability in the overall community struc- ture observed so far in only a few of these mats this study   we are most likely only beginning to grasp the full diversity of iron mats in these settings as well as how they form and what roles they play in elemental cycling.interactions between zetaproteobacteria and nitrosopumilusin general little is known about the interactions between iron oxidizers and co-occurring taxa in iron mats particularly when it comes to archaea.

research articlemicrobial analysis of zetaproteobacteria and co-colonizers of iron mats in the troll wall vent field arctic mid-ocean ridgejan vander roost12 ingunn hindenes thorseth13 hakon dahle121 centre for geobiology university of bergen bergen norway 2 department of biology university of bergen bergen norway 3 department of earth science university of bergen bergen norway abstractopen accesscitation vander roost j thorseth ih dahle h 2017 microbial analysis of zetaproteobacteria and co-colonizers of iron mats in the troll wall vent field arctic mid-ocean ridge.

estimated cell numbers from dna extraction yields are similar to cell numbers reported for iron mats at mar  and were 1-2 orders of magnitude higher in the iron mats than in background seawater .

whereas white mats at the base of the high-temperature venting chimneys are dominated by sulphide oxidizers and to some extent methane oxidizers iron mats in the rift margin harbour high abundances of methanogens and for 12rov5 methanotrophs.

finally the rift valley iron mats are characterized by high abundances of putative iron oxidizers.distribution of gallionellaceaerelative abundances of gallionellaceae varied between 0-0.5 in the iron mats.

instead we observed a cor- relation between relative abundances of gallionellaceae and zetaproteobacteria r2  0.7845p-value  8.917e-4  which provides evidence that gallionellaceae are indeed indige- nous to the mats with relative abundances controlled by the same environmental factors as for zetaproteobacteria.discussionusing 16s rrna gene amplicon sequencing data we have investigated shifts in seafloor micro- bial mats from the troll wall vent field in environments variable in terms of hydrothermal activity and distance from high-temperature venting smokers.

with cell numbers 1-2 orders of magnitude lower in the background seawater than in the iron mats the influence of iron mats by background seawater can be expected to be minor.

based on geochemical data from twvf fluids we discuss how the observed transi- tion from microbial mats dominated by sulphur oxidizers near hydrothermal chimneys to microbial mats dominated by iron oxidizers in the rift valley might be linked to shifting fluid- flow patterns and ultimately shifting energy landscapes.

hence shifting geological settings between the iron mats see below seem to have a large effect on relative abundances of zetaproteobacteria and what taxa they co-occur with but without causing large shifts in what otus of zetaproteobacteria the different mats host.

here we analysed iron mats from the troll wall vent field twvf located at the arctic mid-ocean ridge amor in the norwegian-greenland sea.

using 16s rrna gene sequence profiling we found that relative abundances of zetaproteobacteria in the iron mats varied from 0.2 to 37.9.biogeographic analyses of zetaproteobacteria using the zetahunter software revealed the presence of zetaotus 1 2 and 9 supporting the view that they are cosmopolitan.

moreover we provide evidence for iron-oxidizing members of gallionel- laceae being widespread in twvf iron mats albeit at low relative abundances.permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the originalauthor and source are credited.data availability statement all relevant data arewithin the paper and its supporting information files.

since then members of this group have been detected in various marine environments around the world such as iron mats in hydrothermal fields basalt steel corrosion enrichment experi- ments and the brine-seawater interface -.

