we briefly introduce compositional data illustrate the pathologies that occur when compositional data are analyzed inappropriately and finally give guidance and point to resources and examples for the analysis of microbiome datasets using compositional data analysis.keywords microbiota compositional data high-throughput sequencing correlation bayesian estimation count normalization relative abundanceintroductionthe collection and analysis of microbiome datasets presents many challenges in the study design sample collection storage and sequencing phases and these have been well reviewed robinson et al.

doi lovell d. muller w. taylor j. zwart a. and helliwell c. 2011. proportions percentages ppm do the molecular biosciences treat compositional data right in compositional data analysis theory and applications eds v. pawlowsky- glahn and a. buccianti london john wiley  sons ltd. 193-207.lovell d. pawlowsky-glahn v. egozcue j. j. marguerat s. and bahler j.

 1 1  2 and 31 department of biochemistry university of western ontario london on canada 2 departments of computer science applied mathematics and statistics universitat de girona girona spain 3 department of applied mathematics universitat politecnica de catalunya barcelona spainedited by jessica galloway-pena university of texas md anderson cancer center united statesreviewed byionas erb centre for genomic regulation spainjennifer stearns mcmaster university canadacorrespondence gregory b. gloor specialty section this article was submitted to systems microbiologya section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 10 july 2017accepted 30 october 2017published 15 november 2017citationgloor gb macklaim jm pawlowsky-glahn v and egozcue jj 2017 microbiome datasets are compositional and this is not optional.

there is increasing awareness that microbiome datasets generated by hts are compositional because they have an arbitrary total imposed by the instrument.

however many investigators are either unaware of this or assume specific properties of the compositional data.

the purpose of this review is to alert investigators to the dangers inherent in ignoring the compositional nature of the data and point out that hts datasets derived from microbiome studies can and should be treated as compositions at all stages of analysis.

2013. data that are naturally described as proportions or probabilities or with a constant or irrelevant sum are referred to as compositional data.

compositional data contains information about the relationships between the parts aitchison 1986 pawlowsky-glahn et al.

the difference in apparent direction of change is shown in figure 1c and we can observe that the relationship between absolute abundance in the environment and the relative abundance after sequencing is not predictable.problems with current methods of analysiswe will briefly outline the problems that arise when compositional data are examined using a non-compositional paradigm stepping through the usual stages of analysis shown in figure 2. all these issues have been extensively reviewed and debated in both the older and the more recent literature in fields as diverse as economics geology and ecology.

2016.severe problems with correlation in compositional data were first noted at the dawn of statistical practice by pearson 1897 and rediscovered in the context of microbiome studies lovell et al.

compositional data have a negative correlation bias and a different correlation structure than the underlying count data.

even worse compositional data exhibit spurious correlation upon subsetting or aggregation.

the correlation section in the supplement shows that correlation is not a reliable or a reproducible indicator of the underlying data when dealing with compositional data.finally differential relative abundance measures do not account for compositionality fernandes et al.

2017.in summary the analysis of compositional data using current protocols has several challenges.

however as shown below these issues can be addressed in a satisfactory way using tools that account for the compositional nature of the data.for downstream analyses such as ordination and discrimination.

