given that the goal is to extend healthspan as well as lifespan the mutants were also tested for their ability to prevent age-associated pathology in worm models with nearly half prolonging the lifespan or delaying phenotypic consequences in short-lived amyloid-b transgenic worms and more than half preventing lethality associated with a germline tumor model.surprisingly these mutants decorate several e. coli metabolic pathways and epistasis analysis indicates that they can affect aging through several established longevity pathways including mtor jnk and insulinigf signaling as well as caloric restriction.

why increased mitochondrial fission in this context results in improved mitochondrial homeostasis and extended lifespan remains to beexplored.however these effects are likely evolu- tionarily ancient and conserved in other aging model organisms since yeast mutants associated with extension of replication lifespan have been reported to confer increased mitochondrial fission .

moreover ca supple- mentation is sufficient to extend fruit fly lifespan and confer increased mitochon- drial fragmentation in mammalian cells .1168 cell 169 june 15 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc.figure 1. a pathway by which bacterial metabolites modulate worm lifespana screen of e. coli mutants as an alternative food source and gut microbiome in c. elegans identifies several non-essential genes in e. coli that when deleted result in lifespan extension in the host nematode.

use the workhorse of aging research c. elegans to identify specific mechanisms by which gut bacteria influence mitochondrial dynamics and aging a first step toward analogous manipulations to modulate human aging.aging research has made great strides yielding a number of possible interven- tional strategies aimed at extending human lifespan and healthspan--the dis- ease-free and highly functional period of life .

in this issue of cell expose the interconnectedness of worms and their gut microbiota with respect to aging screen for bacterial mutants that alter worm aging discover that they impact a wide range of conserved worm- aging pathways and identify a specific link between a bacterial polysaccharide and worm mitochondrial dynamics.using a premade library of e.coli lacking individual non-essential genes developed a screening strategy to identify specific e.coli strains that extend worm lifespan.

these mu- tants secrete high levels of ca and sup- plementation of ca accompanied by wild-type bacteria is indeed sufficient to replicate their lifespan benefits .

by analyzing a wider range of worm mu- tants linked to lifespan discover that these effects are lost when the worm electron transport chain is impaired.

both drp-1 the gene required for mitochondrial fission and components of the mitochondrial upr are required for lifespan extension by increased ca lead- ing the authors to conclude that its effects are mediated through improved mito- chondrial homeostasis.

the lifespan extension caused by some of these mutant e. coli strains is mediated by an evolutionarily conserved effect of the bacterial polysaccharide colanic acid on fusion-fission dynamics and unfolded protein response of the host mitochondria linking the bacterial e. coli biosynthetic machinery to mitochondrial dynamics and stress response in the host.among the many implications of this study two stand out.

