2014ab or antibiotic use dethlefsen and relman 2011. the fast response of the gut microbiome to such changes is thoughtto be the result of the rapid growth rate of many bacterial species and the regular large expulsion of gut contents sonnenburg and backhed 2016. in addition to these rapid temporal responses age has been shown to affect the compo- sition of the gut microbiome as well albeit at a much slower rate o'toole and jeffery 2015.despite these temporal and population differences patterns of gut microbial composition in health are starting to emerge.

species srb sulfate-reducing bacteria tma trimethylamine tmao trimethylamine-n-oxidethe human gut microbiomethe human gut is home to 100 trillion microorganisms most of which live in the colon the distal part of the gastrointesti- nal tract.

collectively these microbes are called the human gut microbiota or if also referring to their genomes and the surrounding habitat the human gut microbiome.

2017.metabolism of human milk in infantsthe microbiome and metabolic reactions of the human in- fant gut are distinct from those of the adult gut.

knowledge of the composition and metabolic activity of an individual's gut microbiota can be extremely helpful in predicting that individual's response to certain drugs ursell and knight 2013 klaassen and cui 2015.concluding remarksthis review has provided a broad overview of known biochemical reactions performed by microbes in the human gut and their importance for human physiology.

2016.finally there are still many microbial biotransformationsin the human gut that are poorly understood or remain to be characterized donia and fischbach 2015. molecular surveys of the human gut have recently discovered novel lineages such as the melainabacteria which are probably capable of performing yet-uncharacterized metabolic routes di rienzi et al.

this review summarizes the metabolic conversions of dietary components and pharmaceuticals that take place in the human distal gut as well as their implications for human health.abbreviationshmp human microbiome project scfas short-chain fatty acids spp.

reconstructing the metabolic path- ways of the different body sites sampled in the human microbiome project hmp consortium showed site-specific metabolic profiles human microbiome project consortium 2012. human gut metabolic profiles as determined by metagenomic sequencing were characterized by glycosami- noglycan degradation which was rare or absent in profiles from other body sites.

in addition microbial colonization of the gut educates the host's immune system and helps to shape the correct development of anatomical structures in the intestinal tract round and mazmanian 2009. it has been estimated that the combined genomes of our gut microbiome encode for 500 times as many genes than the human genomec 2017 ubiome inc. british journal of pharmacologypublished by john wiley  sons ltd on behalf of british pharmacological society.doi10.1111bph.14085this is an open access article under the terms of the license which permits use and distribution in any me- dium provided the original work is properly cited the use is non-commercial and no modifications or adaptations are made.li et al.

environ microbiol 19 29-41.lozupone ca stombaugh ji gordon ji jansson jk knight r 2012. diversity stability and resilience of the human gut microbiota.nature 489 220-230.magnusdottir s ravcheev d de crecy-lagard v thiele i 2015. systematic genome assessment of b-vitamin biosynthesis suggests co- operation among gut microbes.

2012. in addition the ability to degrade complex carbohydrates can be driven by the diet of the human population.the most important function of the human microbiomein the distal gut is to extract energy from these otherwise indigestible dietary components flint et al.

but whether these bacteria actually produce vitamin k remains to be deter- mined ravcheev and thiele 2016.additional conversions in the human colonother than the well-studied metabolites discussed above the human gut microbiome generates hundreds of other prod- ucts and many of these are thought to play roles in microbial-microbial or microbial-host interactions donia and fischbach 2015. although the function of most of these molecules remains unknown as of now ongoing research will probably uncover many new metabolites with interesting diagnostic and therapeutic applications.

our gut microbes are basically small biochemical factories expanding our body's metabolic capacities many times grice and segre 2012.the gut microbiome is intricately connected to other organs and our general health.

2012 emphasizing that the composition of the gut microbiome is not as much about 'who is there' but about 'what are they doing' this metabolic functional redundancy is likely to confer stability and resilience to the gut microbiota in the setting of dietary and environmental disturbances moya and ferrer 2016. although inter- individual metabolic capabilities are very similar overall there are also studies showing population-specific variations.

here we will list some recent discoveries in this field as a foretaste of the excit- ing possibilities to come.first oxalobacter formigenes is an -degrading anaerobic gut bacterium thought to protect against hyperoxaluria and kidney stones by decreasing the amount and absorption of oxalate in the gut siener et al.

