further studies are needed to define the constituents of the entire microbiome in liver disease.changes in gut microbiota have also been linked with 90-day hospitalizations organ failure and death in in-patients with cirrhosis these effects underline the additive impact of microbiota changes in clini- cally relevant outcomes 4 6 49. an interesting aspect of liver disease-associated microbiota changes is the effect of liver transplant on the recipient's microbiota.

2014 90see table 1.ppi therapy increases salivary microbiota in stool indicating that salivary microbiota in stoolare related to suppression of gastric acid and likely an epiphenomenonbajaj et al.

similar to the gut microbiota the oral microbiota can be either beneficial or potentially pathogenic and is kept in balance by the natural defense mechanisms of the oral cavity 60. for example cell shedding from the epithelial surface layers and salivary secretions can limit excessive bacterial colonization.

another study using oral capsules for fmt is now underway in the same population clinicaltrials.gov nct03152188.manipulation of the gut microbiota has been shown to change oral microbiota composition.

comparison of the stool species of cirrhotics with known bacterial species prevalent in the oral cavity and gut of healthy individuals demonstrated a partial similarity to oral microbes and to ileal microbes of the healthy individuals 89. qin et al.

engineered rodent gut microbiota with reduced urease activity thereby decreasing ammonia production and then introduced this microbiota into rodents that had been depleted of their existing gut microbiota.

this complex microbiome colonizes teeth surfaces and all mucosal surfaces and it exists in a surface-at- tached community encased in a biofilm called dental plaque 62 63. like gut microbiota oral microbiota can be either aerobic or anaerobic with genera such as fusobacterium veillonella and streptococci predom- inating.

an 8-week trial of twice-daily oral administration of 550 mg rifaximin in patients with compensated cirrhosis resulted in minor overall changes in microbiota composition as well as measurable changes in microbiota functionality 94. evaluation of stool from cirrhotics with a history of he given lactulose alone revealed minimal changes in microbial composition while -- in those on both lactulose and rifaximin -- it revealed changes that were reflective of the underlying liver disease severity rather than the medications themselves 51. however multiple studies have shown that rifaxi- min improves cognition and quality of life in cirrhotic patients suggesting that rifaximin likely modulates the microbiome and reduces inflammation 95 96. another therapy being considered for modulating the human microbiome is fecal microbial transplantation fmt a concept that has been explored in animal models.

inflammation in the oral cavity liver and the gut can lead to systemic inflam- mation thereby inducing endotoxemia as the result of an increase in the relative abundance of potentially pathogenic microbiota in the gut and oral cavity along with impaired mucosal and systemic immune response and a dampened ability of the liver to handle these insults.

besides local tissue effects peri- odontitis is also associated with increased risk of several systemic conditions such as diabetes cardiovascular and respiratory diseases pregnancy complications cancer and possibly liver diseases 71-75. therefore the tightly regulated interaction between the oral microbiota and the host immune system within the oral mucosa is key for maintaining tissue homeostasis and preventing adverse clinical outcomes.the emerging oral-gut axis and liver disease.

it is routine clinical practice to treat periodontitis prior to liver transplant in order to eliminate all potential infectious foci and reduce the risk of postsurgical complica- tions 76. in addition to potentially affecting transplant outcomes periodontitis is associated clinically with liver diseases such as precirrhotic nafld cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma 77. while the studies are still limited and a link between periodontal and liver diseases is not as well established as asso- ciations between periodontitis and other systemic conditions such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease 78 it is likely that similar factors related to the oral microbiota and inflammation connect oral and liver disease as well.

given the ease of sampling combined with the depth of information that can be retrieved from the oral microbiome such studies may signal a significant shift in our approach to elucidating the role of the microbiome in liver disease 104. the oral cavity has potential to be considered an additional factor in future discussions on the impact of microbiota on cirrhosis-associated complications.acknowledgmentsthe manuscript was supported by us va merit review i0cx001076 and niddk ro1dk089713 to jsb and also by national institute of dental and craniofacial research grant de025037 to ses.address correspondence to jasmohan s. bajaj division of gastroenterology hepatology and nutrition virginia commonwealth university and mcguire va medical center 1201 broad rock boulevard rich- mond virginia 23249 usa.

the oral mucosa is the mucous membrane lining the inside of the oral cavity and consists of a stratified squamous epithelium termed oral epithelium and an underlying connective tissue termed lamina propria.

it is possible that the link between the liver and the oral cavity could be via the gut through impaired intestinal permeability that in turn could allow direct translocation of bacteria andor their prod- ucts and inflammatory mediators from the oral cavity to the systemic circulation.in addition to periodontitis cirrhotic patients exhibit numerous oral issues such as petechiae 79 can- didiasis 79 and xerostomia 79 80. although studies on the interaction between cirrhosis and periodon- titis are still too limited to make assumptions regarding a potential cause-and-effect relationship a higher incidence of periodontitis ranging from 25-68 has been reported in cirrhotic patients compared with healthy controls 81 82 an observation that warrants further investigation.

the aim of this review article is to highlight the role of gut microbiome and inflam- mation in the pathophysiology of cirrhosis and to introduce the oral-gut-liver axis as a new perspective to consider in future research.gut microbiota and dysbiosisthe human gut microbiome contains a complex gene pool that arises from the over 1 x 1010 microbes that reside in the human intestine 8. the microbiota is broadly classified by 5 major phyla namely firmicutes bacteroidetes actinobacteria proteobacteria and verrucomicrobia.

