5--taxonomic composition at the genus level of seawater a and freshwater b. although these genera were found in all samples in the drowning group they were not detected in closed organs of the postmortem submersion group.detected in the drowned group and in lung samples in the post- mortem submersion group at low levels but these genera were not detected in the closed organs of the postmortem submersion group in the seawater group.histopathological analysishe-stained sections showed diverse histological findings including hemorrhage congestion and edema.

4--taxonomic composition of the bacterial communities revealed by 16s rrna gene miseq sequencing at the genus level in the seawater group a and freshwater group b.group but not in the closed organs and cardiac blood in the postmortem submersion group fig.

the ace index of freshwater was higher than that of seawater while the shannon index was similar between freshwater and seawater.

in contrast granular deposits and linearmembranous staining of sp-a were evident in the intra-alveolar space and macrophages were more frequent in the drowned group than the postmortem submersion group figs 6 and 7. however there was no signifi- cant difference in the level of intra-alveolar aggregates of sp-a between the freshwater and seawater submersion groups.discussiona critical phase of the death investigation involves not just an autopsy and will be a preliminary in the history of death witness statements and relevant medical records all of which constitute the surrounding circumstances of death.

although all these microorganisms were not identified in the water samples some of the following bacteria can be found in aquatic environments brucella 38 rhodococcus 1539 brevibacterium 4041chryseobacterium 42 serratia 4344 and pantoea 45 in the seawater group and clostridium 4647 in the freshwater group.

in the freshwater group the genus clostridium and clostridiumg4 predominatedin all samples in the drowned group and in the lungs in the post- mortem submersion group but not in the closed organs kidney and liver and blood fig.

therefore we analyzed the microbiota and histological appearance of the drowned group postmortem group and control group in this study.the bacterial composition differed between freshwater and marine water.

rats in each group drowned post- mortem submersion and control were sacrificed according to the following conditions for the drowned group n  4 fresh- water n  2 seawater n  2 animals were submerged in the water until they died.

in the seawater group the genera brucella pseudomonas ochrobactrum elstera rhodococcus propioni- bacterium chelatococcus corynebacterium microbacterium chryseobacterium brevibacterium methylobacterium brevundi- monas pelomonas and rhizobium were found in the kidney of the drowned group and the lung in the postmortem submersionfig.

the slides revealed alveolar hemorrhage and vascular congestion in the lungs of rats submersed in water medium compared with the nondrowned group figs 6 and 7. in the submersion group par- ticularly histological signs were similar to those in the freshwa- ter and seawater aspiration-induced groups showing alveolar hemorrhage congestion-reduced alveolar space and lung injury.

for the postmortem submersion group n  4 freshwater n  2 seawater n  2 animals were anes- thetized with alfaxan 1.5 mlkg iv and euthanized by cervi- cal dislocation and submerged in the water.

these high-quality sequences were taxo- nomically clustered into 15986 and 12119 operational taxo- nomic units otus by de novo clustering using a threshold of 97 identity 28. the total reads from cardiac blood and tissue samples are shown in table 1.bacterial communities of freshwater and seawaterillumina miseq sequencing analysis was performed to deter- mine the microbiota distribution and composition in freshwater and seawater.

these results are in agreement with previous reports of the microbial community of seawater and freshwater 29-31. representative freshwater bacteria such as the families flavobacteriaceae and planktophil- iaf were detected in the han river sample.

in nondrowned group sp-a is sparsely secreted into the alveo- lus or macrophage but in the drowned group it is more pre- sented in the intra-alveolar effusion and the intra-alveolar aggregated granular deposit than the postmortem group.

thus we also performed culture-dependent identification of aquatic microor- ganisms in seawater and freshwater using matrix-assisted laser desorptionionization time-of-flight maldi-tof.the human body exhibits various physical reactions to short moment of drowning such as electrolytic alterations lung edema formation and surfactant dysfunction.

