finally there exists a great potential to use such tools for investigating the influence of microbiota on recycling of key nutrients np and carbon in soil for example in deciphering whether bacteria associated with hyphae are responsible for the beneficial effects of mycorrhizal fungi on plants.microbes and the defence against pathogens microfluidic technology therefore offers a means to begin to unravel these dynamics with high spatio- temporal control.owing to the confinement of microorgan- isms within microchannels and the optical properties of transparent microfluidic devices made from the elastomeric poly- mer polydimethylsiloxane pdms high- resolution dynamic imaging studies can be conducted.

herein we highlight four major advantages afforded by microfluidic technology that we believe will signifi- cantly impact future studies on the plant microbiome.

it is envisaged that microfluidic technology can be interfaced with com- plex plant root-fungal associations to enable studies on a variety of am fungal-bacterial and am fungal-am fun- gal interactions.facilitating multiplexed treatments the application of localised stimuli e.g.

thanks also goes to katherine elvira for the photograph of the microfluidic device used in creation of in adapted by ces.1plant-soil interactions agroecology and environment research division agroscope zurich switzerland 2department of evolutionary biology and environmental studies university of zurich zurich switzerland3plant-microbe interactions institute of environmental biology faculty of science utrecht university the netherlandscorrespondence c.e.

it is envisaged that the application of microfluidic technology to this field will greatly impact the study of plant microbiome dynamics allowing interactions between bacteria and beneficial soil fungi to be visualised and the underlying mechanisms investigated at the cellular level.

we envisage that microfluidic technology will aid hyphosphere profiling to visualise the spatial distribution and activities of different types of bacteria on fungal hyphae.

a new frontier is to use microfluidicwe envisage that microfluidic technology will greatly aid hyphosphere profiling per- mitting the spatial distribution and activi- ties of different types of bacteria on am fungal hyphae to be visualised and quan- tified.

this forum article highlights how microfluidic - or 'microbiome-on- a-chip' - technology could help to shed light on such relationships opening new frontiers in plant- microbiota research.challenging the 'black box' approachalmost all higher organisms including plants insects and mammals are colonised by complex microbial com- munities and harbour a microbiome.

this has been difficult to investigate to date as it is challenging to visualise these dynamic and minuscule interactions.in recent years it has been demonstrated that so-called microfluidic or 'lab-on-a- chip' technology offers several new opportunities to study whole living organisms and their interactions .

we therefore provide a short introduction to microfluidic technology to raise aware- ness of this method to the microbiology community and highlight the major advantages associated with the tech- nique for probing plant microbiome dynamics microbe-microbe and microbe-host interactions.

the central cartoon illustrates the principle of 'microbiome-on-a-chip' the use of microfluidic technology to probe plant microbiome dynamics and interactions.

microfluidic technology.

four major advantages associated with the application of microfluidic technology for the study of plant-microbiota interactions i.e.

the latter feature is especially important in enhancing our understand- ing of microbial navigation strategies allowing chemotaxis studies to be per- formed at the single-cell level and indi- vidual bacterial trajectories recorded in response to chemical stimuli e.g.

for example defined chemical gradients can be created and used to perform chemotaxis studies at the single-cell level .

