an alternative yet highly speculative view is that the human cns may have its own microbiome which could also explain the presence of gram-negative bacterial secretory components in the brain as well as multiple forms of microbial-derived nucleic acid sequences  .author contributionsyz lc vj and wl conceived and discussed the experimental design yz lc vj and wl performed the experiments yz and wl performed bioinformatics and contributed to the medical artwork wl reviewed the results and further researched and wrote this paper.fundingtheworkinthispaperwaspresentedinpartatthe vavilov institute autumn 2016 seminar series institut vavilova osen' 2016 seminar serii in moscow russia october 2016 at thesociety for neuroscience sfn annual meeting san diego ca usa november 2016 and will be presented in abstract-special symposium format at the society for neuroscience sfn annual meeting washington dc usa november 2017. sincere thanks are extended to drs p. n. alexandrov j. g. cui f. culicchia w. poon k. navel c. hebel c. eicken and the late dr. j. m. hill for helpful discussions in this research area for short postmor- tem interval pmi human brain tissues or extracts for initial bioinformatics and data interpretation and to d. guillot anda.

this perspectives paper will further highlight some very recent developments that implicate gi-tract microbiome-derived lps as an important contributor to inflammatory-neurodegeneration in the ad brain.keywords alzheimer's disease inflammatory degeneration lipopolysaccharide microbiome microrna small non-coding rintroduction--inflammatory signaling in the alzheimer's disease ad brainmultiple aspects of increased inflammatory signaling and an altered innate-immune system are consistent features of ad neuropathology however it is not well understood where these pathogenic signals originate or how they progressively contribute to the ad process -.

as lps is an abundant secretory product of gram-negative bacilli resident in the human gi-tract these observations suggesti that a major source of pro-inflammatory signals in ad brain may originate from internally derived noxious exudates of the gi-tract microbiome ii that due to aging vascular deficits or degenerative disease these neurotoxic molecules may leak into the systemic circulation cerebral vasculature and on into the brain and iii that this internal source of microbiome-derived neurotoxins may play a particularly strong role in shaping the human immune system and contributing to neural degeneration par- ticularly in the aging cns.

in addition to the tlr2 and tlr4 receptors at least one additional microglial transmembrane lps receptor--cd14 mediates phagocytosis of both bacterial components and ab42 peptides hence expanding roles for microglia and microglial lps receptors in ad pathophysiology  .to cite other recent examples a secreted highly pro- inflammatory zinc metalloprotease metalloproteinase b. fragilis endotoxin called fragilysin bft derived from enterotoxigenic strains of b. fragilis have been recently shown to contribute toi anaerobic bacteremia sepsis and systemic inflammatory distress diarrheal disease ii systemic inflammation gi-tract and colorectal cancers iii inflammatory neurodegeneration in part via the disruption of epithelial cell-based gi-tract barriers via cleavage of the synaptic adhesion zonula adherens protein e-cadherin and iv enterotoxigenic microbes spe- cifically impact microglial-mediated innate-immune responses detoxifying and phagocytic mechanisms and amyloidogenesis characteristic of inflammatory aspects of neurodegeneration    -.

hence dietary fiber- mediated suppression of b. fragilis abundance may turn out to be beneficial for both the human gi-tract microbiome and cns health   .concluding remarksit is not generally appreciated that in the human body microbial genes outnumber human genes by about 100 to 1 and the impact of bacterial genetics on human health and disease may have been vastly underestimated   - .

the transfer of noxious pro-inflammatory molecules from the gi-tract microbiome to the cns may be increasingly important during the course of aging when both the gi-tract and blood-brain barriers become significantly more permeable   .perinuclear localization of lps in ad brainswhile other recent studies have reported an lps-mediated stimu- lation of chronic inflammation beta-amyloid accumulation and episodic memory decline in murine models of ad   and a biophysical association of lps with amyloid deposits and blood vessels in human ad patients  here we provide the first evidence of a perinuclear association of lps with ad brain cell nuclei .

secretory products of the human gi-tract micro- biome and their potential impact on alzheimer's disease ad detection of lipopolysaccharide lps in ad hippocampus.

81064.doi abundant clinical epidemiological imaging genetic molecular and pathophysi- ological data together indicate that there occur an unusual inflammatory reaction and a disruption of the innate-immune signaling system in alzheimer's disease ad brain.

 12 lin cong13 vivian jaber1 and 1451 neuroscience center louisiana state university school of medicine louisiana state university health sciences center new orleans la united states 2 department of anatomy and cell biology louisiana state university school of medicine louisiana state university health sciences center new orleans la united states 3 department of neurology shengjing hospital china medical university heping district shenyang china 4 department of neurology louisiana state university school of medicine louisiana state university health sciences center new orleans la united states 5 department of ophthalmology louisiana state university school of medicine louisiana state university health sciences centernew orleans la united statesedited by wesley h. brooks university of south floridaunited statesreviewed byai-ling lin university of kentuckyunited states abdul sadiquniversity of malakandpakistancorrespondence walter j. lukiw specialty section this article was submitted to microbial immunology a section of the journal frontiers in immunologyreceived 25 july 2017accepted 16 august 2017published 04 september 2017citationzhao y cong l jaber v and lukiw wj 2017 microbiome-derived lipopolysaccharide enriched inthe perinuclear region of alzheimer's disease brain.

along with an avalanche of very recent work from independent laboratories these observations prompted us to further examine the presence and anatomical location of lps in ad brains versus age- and gender-matched controls   .internally derived noxious exudates of the gi-tract microbiomemajor gram-negative bacilli of the human gi-tract such as the abundant b. fragilis and escherichia coli e. coli are capable of discharging a remarkably complex assortment of pro-inflammatory neurotoxins.

there is considerable speculation that as for other bacterial exudates such rna-based neurotoxins may be pathogenic and highly detrimental to the homeostatic function of the neuronal glial endothelial and other brain cells that comprise the cns  .leakage of neurotoxic molecules into the systemic circulation and the cnsgram-negative bacterial exudates of the human gi-tract are not only the primary source of a remarkable array of neuro- toxic pro-inflammatory amyloids endo- and exotoxins lpss and sncrnas but also serve as potent sources of membrane- disrupting agents     .

the assumption of the privileged immunological status of the cns has also been recently questioned in multiple investigations particularly in terms of inflammatory neurodegenerative diseases such as ad as both microbial-derived nucleic acid sequences andor noxious exudates representative of gi-tract gram-negative bacteria are showing up within cns compartments including prominently anatomical regions of the cns involved in inflammatory and pathological signaling and neuro-immune disruptions that characterize the ad process      .

analysis of rna from alzheimer's disease post-mortem brain tissues.

front neurosci 2016 10193. dofranco-bocanegra dk nicoll jar boche d. innate immunity in alzheimer's disease the relevance of animal models j neural transm vienna 2017. dorojas-gutierrez e munoz-arenas g trevino s espinosa b chavez r rojas k et al.

16s rrna next generation sequencing analysis shows bacteria in alzheimer's post-mortem brain.

