there was a significant effect of dietary intervention for head symptoms t 20  4.95 p  .0001 eye symptoms t 20  3.96 p  .001 nose symptoms t 20  4.22 p  .0001 skin symptoms t 20  4.78 p .0001 heart symptoms t 20  4.11 p  .001 digestive symptoms t 20  6.10 p  .0001 joint and muscle symptoms t 20  4.66 p  .0001 weight symptoms t 20  6.47 p .0001 energy symptoms t 20  5.18 p  .0001 mind symptoms t 20  5.22 p  .0001 and emotion symptoms t 20  7.67 p  .0001.discussionthe gut makeover program was developed with the aim of optimising the health and diversity of the microbiome and thereby promoting weight-loss and helping to resolve digestive issues.

there was a significant effect of dietary intervention on medical symptoms t 21  7.87 p  .0001. as can be seen in  the number and severity of medi- cal symptoms reported before the intervention mean  60.10 sd  31.95 was more than 3 times greater than that reported after the four-week dietary intervention mean  18.71sd  12.69.without exception all participants saw a drop in their total medical symptoms scores from before the intervention to post-intervention these symptom score changes are depicted in no participant saw their symptom score increase or stay the same from pre-intervention to post-intervention.total scores for each of the 14 subscales of the medical symptoms questionnaire msq were then entered into paired-sample t-tests.

there was also a striking reduction in negative symptoms related to cognition memory and emotional wellbe- ing including symptoms of anxiety and depression.

this was assessed using the functional medicine medical symptoms questionnaire msq  which consists of 71 questions relating to 15 areas of health detailed in  including symptoms related to the digestive tract the mind and emotions.

head symptoms such as headaches faintness diz- ziness and insomnia decreased as did symptoms related to the eyes nose skin heart and joints.

participants reported more symptoms on the 'mind' sub-scale of the msq before undergoing the intervention these include symptoms such as poor memory and concentration and difficulties making decisions.

weight and various aspects of health were assessed pre and post intervention using the functional medicine medical symptoms questionnaire msq.

adverse medical symptoms related to digestion cognition and physical and emotional wellbeing were also significantly reduced during the course of the dietary inter- vention.

the intervention designed to manipulate gut bacteria had a significant impact on digestion reducing ibs type symptoms in this non-clinical population.

the lactobacillus genus of bacteria in particular would appear to play a role in weight regulation  perhaps mediated by its involvement in the fermentation of sugars into acids .despite some inconsistency in study findings orally administered probiotics have also been reported to help alleviate gastrointestinal symptoms in ibs .

this diet was devised primarily as a tool for weight-loss and resolution of digestive symptoms.

time restricted feeding is also suggested which involves fasting for twelve hours between dinner and breakfast to allow the gut time to stimulate gut bacteria regrowth overnight .previous research has identified significant reductions in adverse digestive symptoms  and improvements in weight regulation  mood  and other aspects of general healthand well-being  for individuals who take probiotics.

the majority of participants' primary goal was therefore weight-loss with several additionally aiming to improve digestive symptoms chronic acid reflux bloating con- stipation loose stools wind plus energy and pain issues.

lentils and beansalcoholcaffeinedairy can be reintroduced after 2 weeks if no adverse symptoms on re-introductionthe research aimed to quantitatively assess the impact of the gut makeover program on differ- ent aspects of health and wellbeing.

it was given to participants as part of their routine intervention to assess any changes in symptoms from pre- to post-intervention.

