whether this finding impacts on disease development or has any implication for the role of the microbiome in inflammatory bowel disease etiology remains to be determined.key words ulcerative colitis cohabitation spouses gut microbiomec the authors 2017. published by baishideng publishing group inc. all rights reserved.sorrentino d. microbial dysbiosis in spouses of uc patientsdisease etiology remains unknown.as for the individual ibd's studies in monozygotic twins show a concordance rate of 44-55 in cd and only 8-10 in uc5.

for example disease activity seems to affect the microbial profile in ibd while microbial alterations similar to those described in ibd have been described in patients with nonspecific intestinal injury4.

thus these findings highlight the potential role of the microbiome in ibd etiology.to play a crucial role in disease etiology - especially in uc - though it is unclear whether it does so by acting through the microbiome.in the paper published in the 25th issue ofthe journal chen et al6 studied the influence of cohabitation on the gut microbial community in healthy partners of uc patients using 16s rrna amplicon sequencing.

whether this impacts disease development or points to a specific role of the microbiome on ibd etiology remains to be determined.referencesthe similarities between their microbial profile and that of their patient partners.

the microbial profile of the asian population might differ from that of the western population8 - an important factor to keep in mind in comparative studies.so does this study suggest that the microbiome dysbiosis in ibd might be a primary event rather than the result of the disease the answer is no.

indeed there is no evidence that cohabitation with ibd patients might increase the risk of disease in the spouses so the results of this study only indicate that the microbiome can be partially transmitted from individual to individual.

altered microbial function has also been reported in ibd patients-specifically butyrate butanoate and propanoate metabolism are decreased while the oxidative stress the type ii secretion system secretion of toxins the transport of both amino acids and sulfates are increased2.despite these impressive and reproducible alter-ations in the gut microbiome of ibd patients it is unclear whether such dysbiosis is the cause or simply the consequence i.e.

impact of ethnicity geography and disease on the microbiota in health and inflammatory bowel disease.

submit a manuscript doi 10.3748wjg.v23.i37.6747world j gastroenterol 2017 october 7 2337 6747-6749issn 1007-9327 print issn 2219-2840 onlinemicrobial dysbiosis in spouses of ulcerative colitis patients any clues to disease pathogenesisdario sorrentinodario sorrentino ibd center division of gastroenterology virginia tech carilion school of medicine roanoke va 24016 united statesdario sorrentino department of clinical and experimental medical sciences university of udine school of medicine 33100 udine italyorcid number dario sorrentino 0000-0002-2694-8823.author contributions sorrentino d solely wrote the manuscriptconflict-of-interest statement the author declares no conflict of interest related to this publication.open-access this article is an open-access article which was selected by an in-house editor and fully peer-reviewed by external reviewers.

in ulcerative colitis the environment seems to play a crucial role in disease etiology since monozygotic twins show a concordance rate of only 8-10 - though it is unclear whether it does so by acting through the microbiome.

among those the most studied are the inflammatory bowel diseases ibd - both ulcerative colitis uc and crohn's disease cd.

these observations suggest that the microbial profile in ibd might be the result of local changes in the intestinal mucosa following the disease onset.

while disease is unlikely in the absence of symptoms the hypothetical concomitant presence of ibd in the spouses could clearly explainor even with our dogs10.

cell 2016 164 337-340 pmid 26824647 doi 10.1016 j.cell.2016.01.013kostic ad  xavier rj gevers d. the microbiome in inflammatory bowel disease current status and the future ahead.

genetics and environmental interactions shape the intestinal microbiome to promote inflammatory bowel disease versus mucosal homeostasis.

