in contrast helicobacteraceae in a. amurensis from nemuro were distantly related to known helicobacteraceae members and their phylogeny could not be inferred in detail from the short-read sequence from miseq.to clarify the phylogenetic position of helicobacteraceae dominantly found in a. amurensis cloning and sequencing of the 16s rrna gene were performed on one representative sample 2014n-mcf-2.

although these epsilonproteobacteria were scarcely detected in a. amurensis cf previously unknown helicobacter-related taxon was mainly detected from a. amurensis collected from nemuro city in 2015.the 16s rrna gene sequence of helicobacter-related taxon was most closely related to helicobacter rodentium and h. marmotae which were respectively isolated from laboratory miceand livers of woodchucks and intes- tines of cats.

at the sampling sites a. amurensis and p. pectinifera live together although a. amurensis was rarely found in the area of nemuro with turbid seawater.

although some microorganisms were isolated in pure cultures from starfish body little is known regarding microbial community structures associated with starfish.in this study by the combined use of culture-dependent and -independent methods we analysed micro- bial communities associated with common starfish species a. amurensis and p. pectinifera echinodermata asteroidea.

cf samples from common coastal starfish a. amurensis 19 individuals and 1 pooled sample and p. pectinifera 8 individuals and 1 pooled sample were analysed.

this phylotype was not widely distributed but was dominantly observed in the cf of a. amurensis 2014u-mcf-bulk collected from the same sampling site suggesting the bio- geography of starfish cf microbiota.

although the a. amurensis cf microbiota greatly varied between starfish individuals fig.

sample names represent sampling year sampling site n or h nemuro city u or m hakodate city starfish species a. amurensis m p. pectinifera i body parts cf coelomic fluid s body surface or seawater sw and individual number.

a. amurensis p. pectinifera seawater and starfish body surface samples are shown in red blue green and black respectively.

the dominance of potentially sulfur-oxidizing microbiota might be associated with the starfish feeding behavior for example a. amurensis has been observed digging up and eating bivalves bur- ied depth 10 cm in sediments .

among the sampling sites the common coastal isopod ligia exotica was found to be abundant only in hakodate city which might be associated with the near absence of candidatus hepatoplasma in the starfish cf from nemuro city.mainly from the a. amurensis cf collected from nemuro city in 2016 unclassified members of the order thiotrichales were dominantly detected.

amurensis cf samples suggesting a lower microbial richness in a. amurensis than in p. pectinifera.

81 94-102 2002.osbourn a. goss r. j. m.  field r. a. the saponins - polar isoprenoids with important and diverse biological activities.

by contrast many a. amurensis individuals harboured unique microbes in the cf which was dominated by the unclassified thiotrichales or previously unknown helicobacter- related taxon.

fluorescence insitu hybridization using a helicobacter-related-taxon-specific probe suggested that probe-reactive cells in a. amurensis were spiral-shaped morphologically similar to known helicobacter species.

