up to 82 of post-cataract endophthal- mitis may be caused by ocular flora  underscoring the need to understand and monitor the distribution of ocular mi- croorganisms and infections and their antibiotic resistance in order to best tailor pre- peri- and postoperative management..ocular bacterial floranormal ocular flora is diverse.

szwajcarska 3 60-285 poznan poland2 department of ophthalmology university of warmia and mazury olsztyn poland3 department of ophthalmology vanderbilt university nashville tn usainfectious complication of ocular surgery particularly cataract surgery ocular trauma or intravitreal injections .the drug arsenal available to ophthalmologists is expected to expand continuously with the introduction of new and more effective drugs.

analysis on mice suggests that ocular flora may be required for mounting a sufficient immune response to ocular infection later in life .

the three above aforementioned studies interpreted col- lectively suggest that antibiotic use may have a measurable and immediate influence in the emergence of resistant bacte- rial strains in our patients.in response to a perceived threat from increasing antibiotic resistance worldwide the world health organization the united states food and drug administration and other large organizations started surveillance programs amalgamating da- ta from the usa and worldwide -.two such initiatives are of particular interest to ophthal- mology--ocular tracking resistance in the u.s. today trust and antibiotic resistance monitoring in ocular microorganisms armor   .trust is a nationwide us-based multicenter surveillance program established in 1996 in which isolates are sent from over 200 clinical laboratories to an independent central labo- ratory for in vitro susceptibility testing.

am j ophthalmol 1573 514-518haas w pillar cm torres m morris tw sahm df 2011 monitoring antibiotic resistance in ocular microorganisms results from the antibiotic resistance monitoring in ocular microrganisms armor 2009 surveillance study.

am j ophthalmol 1524567-574asbell pa colby ka deng s mcdonnell p meisler dm raizman mb sheppard jd sahm df 2008 ocular trust nationwide antimicrobial susceptibility patterns in ocular isolates.

doiasbell pa sanfilippo cm pillar cm decory hh sahm df morris tw 2015 antibiotic resistance among ocular pathogens in the united states five-year results from the antibiotic resistance monitoring in ocular microorganisms armor surveillance study.

much less information is available on the resistance of normal ocular microbiome and that of ophthalmic infections.

an understanding of the distri- bution of ocular microorganisms may help us in tailoring our empiric treatment as well as in choosing effective pre- peri- and postoperative management to achieve the best results for patients.

this study aims to summarize and review the avail- able literature on the subject of normal ocular flora and its resistance as well as the broader topic of antibiotic resistance in ophthalmology.keywords antibiotic resistance in ophthalmology .

ocular microbiome .

ocular microbial flora .

ocular flora .

however this is not true in the case of antibi- otics as resistance is expected to pose an increasing threat to effective treatment of ocular infections .the globe of the eye is well protected from exogenous microorganisms under normal conditions.

however penetrat- ing trauma--be it random surgical or associated with injec- tion--can facilitate the migration of elements of the ocular flora into the eye resulting in infection .although endophthalmitis is considered a very rare com- plication with estimated occurrence at approximately 0.03- 0.2 after cataract surgery and 0.02-0.2 after a single intra- vitreal injection the high volume of cataract surgery per- formed worldwide results in thousands of cases of endoph- thalmitis each year  .

