fractionation of the colonic microbiota of antibiotic-naive mice demonstrated that vre clearance is dependent upon obligate anaerobic bacterial populations and that barnesiella abundance is inversely correlated with vre levels in both mice and humans figure 1 152. studies using an anaerobic in vitro systema diverse microbiotab dysbiosis diversity of bacteria abundance of obligate anaerobes antimicrobial factors mucin productionantibiotic exposurefecal microbiota transplant diversity of bacteria abundance of obligate anaerobes antimicrobial factors mucin production vre translocation bacteremia riskno vre expansionvre dominationfigure 1characteristics of healthy microbiota and dysbiotic microbiota following exposure to vancomycin-resistant enterococcus vre.

although diet and other environmental factors can influence the composition of the human microbiota administration of antibiotics has the most dramatic and long-term impact in some cases leading to permanent loss of many bacterial taxa 38 39. in this review we summarize recent work on three groups of bacterial pathogens that are readily suppressed by a complex antibiotic-naive microbiota but that can thrive and cause disease in pa- tients with a disrupted microbiota clostridium difficile vancomycin-resistant enterococcus vre and multidrug-resistant enterobacteriaceae.

for example when stiefel and colleagues colonized mice with a b-lactamase- producing strain of b. thetaiotaomicron and administered a dose of ceftriaxone they found that the presence of the antibiotic-inactivating enzyme in the gut allowed the microbiota to recover and prevent overgrowth with vre or c. difficile 143.specific members of the microbiota confer protection against specific intestinal pathogensmammalian hosts benefit from the complex diverse microbiota composed of a broad array of anaerobic bacterial species because they provide resistance to a wide range of pathogens 14 66. pathogens differ however in terms of which commensal bacterial strains provide resistance.

in addition we review strategies to remediate antibiotic-induced damage to the microbiota and to enhance resistance to these infections 19.antibiotic treatment compromises the microbiota and increases susceptibility to nosocomial infectionsclostridium difficile emergence and relationship to antibiotic therapyclostridium difficile is a gram-positive anaerobic bacterium that causes antibiotic-associated diar- rhea and colitis and results in the majority of gastroenteritis-associated deaths in the united states 64. it was identified as the cause of antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis in 1978 fol- lowing the demonstration that c. difficile culture supernatants caused cell rounding and death in in vitro cell cultures 60. the early part of the 21st century was marked by a large increase in both the number and the severity of c. difficile colitis cases in the united states.

abbreviation regiiig regenerating islet-derived protein iii-gamma.found that the anaerobic bacteria component of human fecal microbiota is sufficient to eliminate vre 45 69. while the ability of fmt to clear vre from the gastrointestinal tract of patients has not been tested in a randomized controlled trial an anecdotal report suggests that reestablishing a diverse microbiota can reduce vre colonization 48.fmt therapy also shows promise in clearing colonization with multidrug-resistant enterobac- teriaceae.

succinate in this case is used by the pathogen to regener- ate nad and the absence of most commensals allows succinate levels to rise in the postantibiotic state 52.bile acid levels affect c. difficile's ability to germinate and expand in the gutthe microbiota also influences the growth of pathogens like c. difficile through its effects on bile acid metabolism figure 2. bile acids are amphipathic molecules produced in primary form in the liver and converted to secondary bile acids by specific members of the commensal microbiota 104. the relative concentrations of primary and secondary bile acids serve as key signals for c. difficile spore germination and growth primary bile acids such as taurocholate and cholate induce spore germination 121 167 168 whereas secondary bile acids such as deoxycholate and lithocholate inhibit outgrowth of toxin-producing vegetative cells 21 61 81 147. critical to c. difficile's ability to germinate from metabolically dormant spores are the relative concentrations of various members of the bile acid pool.

it is likely that the levels of colonization resistance conferred by the obligate anaerobic bacterial species that constitute the intestinal microbiota will be difficult to achieve with the more palatable oxygen-tolerant probiotic bacterial species currently available to the public.an indirect method to help boost commensal species and restore colonization resistance to infections is with prebiotics orally ingested products such as complex carbohydrates and fibers that can affect microbiota composition by favoring the expansion of potentially desirable com- mensal species.

shifting from meat-based to vegetable-based diets alters microbiota composition a process that is reversible when the diet reverts 35. plant-derived extracts such as eugenol and lavender oil are reported to promote bacterial diversity and resistance to c. rodentium infectiontable 1examples of bacteriocins that can be used to decrease colonization with c. difficile and vancomycin-resistantenterococcus infectionsabacteriocin encoded on a plasmid then produced by the indicated bacterium.8 170 and rice bran-enhanced diets can temporarily reduce fecal shedding of s. enterica in mice 84. a polysaccharopeptide from the mushroom trametes versicolor upon administration to humans alters the microbiota composition however the health implications of the alterations are unclear 111. in contrast diets enhanced with a prebiotic either inulin or short-chain fructo- oligosaccharides had no protective effects when investigated in an in vivo model of c. rodentium infection 73.bacteriocins as therapeuticswhile administration of live probiotic agents for prevention and clearance of antibiotic-resistant intestinal infections can be effective there are risks associated with the administration of live bacteria to highly immunocompromised patients or patients with compromised mucosal bar- rier function.

this effect was bacteriocin specific as inoculating mice with a pediocin-producing strain of bacteria did not reduce intestinal vre colonization 106. nisin also has bactericidal activity against a variety of clostridial strains but preserves some of the commensal microbiota and is not absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract 9 28 53. another bacteriocin produced by lactococcus lactis named lacticin is more potent against clinical c. difficile isolates 123. more specific killing is seen with thuricin cd a bacteriocin produced by bacillus thuringiensis 124. in addition c. difficile strains produce their own bacteriocins termed diffocins that selectively kill other c. difficile strains in a murine model with only moderate disruption of the microbiota 58 59.recent studies have identified and engineered more effective bacteriocins.

2014. species and genus level resolution analysis of gut microbiota in clostridium difficile patients following fecal microbiota transplantation.

2013. microbiota dynamics in patients treated with fecal microbiota transplantation for recurrent clostridium difficile infection.

the commensal microbiota comprising microbes that colonize the mam- malian gastrointestinal tract can provide high levels of resistance to in- fection and the contributions of specific bacterial species to resistance are being discovered and characterized.

in many settings the microbiota contributes to health and disease resistance whereas in other circumstances it exacerbates inflammatory disease pathogenesis.

while the term microbiome was coined only in 2001 92 the discovery that mucosal surfaces are covered with diverse animalcules is attributed to anthony leewenhoek and his use of the microscope in the seventeenth century 94. the microbiota contains a di- verse array of bacteria viruses fungi and protozoans but the bacterial component has been most extensively investigated.

difficile-associated disease 2 135. brief treatment with antibiotics can be sufficient to dis- rupt the host's microbiota-mediated resistance to c. difficile infection many classes of antibiotics can induce profound long-lasting shifts in the microbiota that enable c. difficile germination and outgrowth 3 21 22 96 142 148. treatment with metronidazole or oral vancomycin is only partially effective at curing c. difficile infection.

