wang and colleagues show that like antibiotic- treated mice germ-free mice exhibit marked reduction of nfil3 expression when they are compared to convention- ally colonized controls.on the basis of these findings the au- thors examine the important question of whether nfil3 in iecs is necessary for altering host metabolism and body composition.

2017. compared to wild- type nfil3flfl controls nfil3flflvil1-cre mice exhibit body-weight reductions that are analogous to those seen in micro- biota-depleted mice.

report that germ-free mice also have increased nr1d1 expression and decreased nfil3 expression in comparison to conventionally colonized mice.

importantly they further show that antibiotic-treated nr1d1-- mice referred to as rev-erba-- mice by wang et al.

this binding is markedly reduced in germ-free mice compared to conven- tionally colonized mice.

they show that multiple genes involved in lipid transport and meta- bolism including cd36 and scd1 are reduced in germ-free mice and conven- tional nfil3flflvil1-cre mice compared to conventionally colonized wild-type con- trols.

the authors reinforce their previous findings that the microbiota regulates nfil3 and nr1d1 expression through ilcs and stat3 iecs from both id2-defi- cient and nfil3flflvil1-cre mice express cd36 and scd1 at levels comparable toimmunity 47 october 17 2017 619immunitypreviewsthose seen in germ-free mice.

strikingly lipid stores in tissue from the small intes- tine are seen to be substantially reduced in nfil3flflvil1-cre mice on a high-fat diet when these mice are compared with nfil3flfl controls.

showed that mice reared in the absence of microbial colonization germ-free have lower body fat and metabolic rates than do conventionally colonized controls aeur.

who reported that as compared to transplantation of micro- biota from a lean donor transplantation of an obese donor microbiota into lean mice increases body-fat percentage and energy harvest .

revealed that the gut microbiota oscillates diurnally and this effect is lost with disruption of circadian rhythm induced by ''jet lag'' in both humans and mice  .

to delete nfil specifically in iecs the authors crossed nfil3flfl to villin1 vil1-cre mice referred to as nfil3diec in wang et al.

when fed a high- fat diet for 10 weeks nfil3flflvil1-cre mice maintain this reduced body weight which can be attributed to decreases in body-fat percentage fat-pad weight and liver fat stores.

antibiotic treatment has no additional effect on body composi-tion in nfil3flflvil1-cre mice suggesting that nfil3 is required for microbiota- mediated decreases in body weight.

interestingly the authors detect no differ- ences between nfil3flfl and nfil3flflvil1- cre mice in microbiota composition before and after a high-fat diet.

