future studies such as microbiota transplant studies from hcr rats into lcr rats and vice versa or humanized transplant studies are warranted and will provide much needed proof of concept for the potential causative role of the microbiome in suscepti- bilityprotection of nafld related to changes witnessed with differences in aerobic fitness.microbiome and liver cancerthe incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma hcc is in- creased with the progression of nafld to advanced cirrhosis and may be mediated through changes in the microbiome 116. fecal bifidobacterium is negatively associated while enterococcus is positively associated with end-stage liver dis- ease 63. furthermore hydrogen peroxide-producing lacto- bacillus can potentially reverse dysbiosis in end stage liverdisease through decreases in enterococcus 63. yoshimoto el al.

201 found that the secondary bile acid dca is linked to a senescence-associated secretory phenotype sasp which is senescent fibroblasts turning to proinflammatory cells that promote tumorigenesis 34. specifically dca initiates sasp in hepatic stellate cells promoting inflammatory and tumor- initiating mediators that increase the susceptibility to hcc in carcinogen-exposed mice 201. similar to the progression from nafld to nash increased lps and fecal escherichia coli have also been linked to the onset of end-stage liver disease and hcc in humans and rodent models 41 63 64 202. moreover chemically induced hcc causes elevated systemic lps levels whereas ablation of tlr4 antibiotic supplementation and also germ-free mice are protected against tumorigenesis 41 202.the rise in hcc has been linked to obesity type 2 diabetes and nafld which are replacing viral and alcoholic-induced liver diseases as the major contributors reviewed in 112. interestingly initial evidence shows that probiotics can shift the gut microbiome beneficially toward prevotella and oscil- libacter which influence regulation of gut t cell differentiation and alter hepatic proinflammatory cytokines in the extraintes- tinal tumor microenvironment 100. this is further evidence that the gut microbiome is playing a crucial role in the full spectrum of liver diseases.

nafld nonal- coholic fatty liver disease nash nonalcoholic steato- hepatitis scfa short-chain fatty acids.healthynafldnashnafld progressiongut barrierlps delivery bacterial dnainflammation and fibrosis altered bile acid metabolism overproduction of scfa394microbiome nafld and lifestyle modificationfurthermore lifestyle modifications such as exercise and in- creasing aerobic fitness weight loss and dietary choices can prevent or even reverse dysbiosis which may prove to be beneficial in the management of nafld.

in this review we 1 discuss microbiome-derived metabolites that significantly contribute to the gut- liver axis and are directly linked to nafldnash and 2 present evidence on lifestyle modifications reshaping the microbiome and the potential therapeutic aspects in combating the disease.microbiome nafld lifestyle modifications microbial metabolitesnonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld is a chronic liverdisease that encompasses a spectrum of liver pathologies rang- ing from simple steatosis to more severe nonalcoholic steato- hepatitis nash which includes the development of inflam- mation and fibrosis.

these beneficial effects may be elicited through changes in the gut microbiome a resident of over 2000 distinct species including bacteria archaea fungi and viruses a collection that represents 150 times more genes than the human genome 29. unhealthy lifestyles or physiological status such as obesity pose a dysbiotic micro- bial signature 98 99 particularly by having greater capacity to metabolize carbohydrates and provide energy to the host 176. changes in microbial composition are also implicated in steatosis 7 154 159 nash 69 and fibrosis 15 with associations between gut microbial products and nafld 178 a concept referred to as the gut-liver hypothesis.understanding the interaction between changes in the mi- crobiome compositionmetabolite production with hepatic me- tabolism is crucial in understanding the gut-liver axis and potentially nafld progression.

in addition butyrate is known to reduce the growth and motility of colonocyte cancer cell lines by inducing apoptosis 132 is the primary energy source of normal colonocytes 151 and promotes gut epithelialmicrobiome nafld and lifestyle modification387integrity by increasing tight junction assembly 138. further- more fermentable fiber intake and scfa have been found to be beneficial in fighting obesity in part through increasing circulating anorexic gut hormones peptide yy and glucagon- like peptide 1 glp-1 to promote satiety 25 59 131. specifically in the liver dietary fiber and direct scfa admin- istration at physiologically relevant doses reduces hepatocel- lular triglyceride concentrations liver cholesterol synthesis and de novo lipogenesis in rodents 11 68 79 and humans 595 166.although potentially beneficial under normal physiological conditions the gut microbiome in an obese and nafld state has been linked to overproduction of scfa in the proximal large bowel.

initially ffar2-deficient mice were reported to have lower body fat increased lean mass and lower liver weight and liver triglyc- erides compared with wild-type mice 14. however more recent evidence shows hfd-fed ffar2-deficient mice have greater weight gain adiposity and insulin resistance compared with wild-type mice 86 whereas overexpression of ffar2 in adipose tissue elicited protective effects from diet-induced obesity and hepatic steatosis 86. furthermore ffar2-defi- cient mice in a germ-free environment are protected from hfd-induced increases in obesity outcomes demonstrating a potential link between the interaction of the microbiome scfa-ffar2 binding and energy metabolism 9 86. as stated previously ffar2 could also have direct effects on gut inflammation increase gut permeability and cause a greater propensity for microbial products to reach the liver and con- tribute to nafld 113. however more definitive studies are needed to better establish the connection between the gutmicrobiota gpcrs and nafld risk.the contradictory observations revealing the potential ben- efits vs. detriments of scfa production on hepatic metabolism highlight the complexity of their roles in the gut-liver hypoth- esis.

2. hepatic rna sequencing pathway analysis utilizing ingenuity pathway anal- ysis of genes impacted by lipopolysaccha- ride lps signaling in western diet-fed pigs.microbiome nafld and lifestyle modification391syndrome 129. however the impact of protein source on bcfa concentrations the microbiome and nafld is not well understood.

the overall objectives of this review are to 1 define the significance of the microbiome and the gut microbiome-liver hypothesis 2 discuss the microbial products that may significantly impact hepatic metabolism and 3 pro- vide evidence of how different lifestyle modifications includ- ing diet exercise and aerobic fitness change the microbiome with discussion on the implications to nafldnash.microbiome differences between preclinical models and humansthroughout this review we will reference rodent pig and human microbiome studies and therefore deem it necessary to discuss the compositional and functional similarities.

alarmingly nafld is considered the most common chronic liver disease in the united states currently estimated to affect 80 million -100 million ameri- cans 107 149 180. nash poses major health risks for comorbidities including insulin resistance 30 cardiovascular disease 119 190 and increased mortality 62. nafld development is often linked to reduced hepatic mitochondrial function increased de novo lipogenesis and enhanced free fatty acid uptake 88 however the underlying mechanisms triggering the transition to the more severe phenotype of nash are not fully understood.address for reprint requests and other correspondence r. s. rector harry s truman memorial va hospital and univ.

it also is estimated that 20 of teenagers consume 25 ofmicrobiome nafld and lifestyle modification389their daily calories from fructose 17. consumption of fruc- tose-containing beverages either as fructose or sucrose con- tributes more to the development of nafld than do isocaloric alternatives 127. in addition stanhope et al.

prebiotics are de- fined as indigestible food ingredients that stimulate the growth activity of beneficial gut microbes 173. dietary probiotics are living bacterial strains that confer benefits to the host 71. with regard to obesity and metabolic syndrome prebiotics increase gut epithelial tight junction proteins occludens and zo-1 promote endocrine action of peptide yy and glp-1 to promote satiety as well as decrease fat mass and insulin resistance reviewed in 46. furthermore dietary oligofruc- tose increases endocrine function to promote satiety with a concomitant decrease in body weight 136. like prebiotics probiotics create a competitive advantage for commensal mi- crobes to promote barrier function and glp-1 secretion to improve glucose tolerance and satiety which correlates with scfa production 91 200.the clinical significance of pre- and probiotics on the mi- crobiome in relation to host metabolism and combating meta- bolic syndrome has been studied and previously reviewed 87 111. in terms of prevention and treatment of nafld ran- domized clinical trials are lacking in assessing the effective-ness of pre- and probiotics systemic reviews by 103 167. a study in obese nafld patients found vsl3 probiotic sup- plementation improved markers of liver function and injury 106. in addition a symbiotic dietary intervention i.e.

diet exercise and aerobic fitness improve nafld outcomes and can significantly influence the microbiome.

however directly linking lifestyle-induced remodeling of the microbiome to nafld pathogenesis is not well understood.

primary vs. secondary bile acids from gut microbiome metab- olism as well as changes in enterohepatic flux could impact the binding of bile acids to these receptors and affect nafld risk.

