in light of the great cardiovascular risk that ele- vated plasma concentration of 'uremic retention solutes' ap- pears to exert in patients with ckd even before the need for dialysis and the limited efficacy of modification of dialytic methods 40 to significantly reduce the cardiovascular risk in patients with esrd it is appropriate to examine alternate meth- ods for reducing the plasma concentration of these uremic 'toxins' 12. the evidence presented in this pilot study points to the gut production of uremic toxins as the most likely site at which intervention might have an impact on plasma uremic sol- ute concentrations.

'tissue factors' 10 11. with the rec- ognition of the important role these protein-bound solutes playvc the author 2017. published by oxford university pressdownloaded fornombehhtatlpf soferaaca-deedmitca..oaupll.rciogmhtnsdrtesearrvteidc.le-abstract3211180930967601809in the cardiovascular outcome in chronic renal disease there is considerable interest in the nature and origin of uremic toxins and consideration of possible approaches to reducing the plasma concentration of these 'uremic solutes' in patients undergoing hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis and in patients in earlier stages of ckd 12.many of these uremic solutes are known to originate from  the gut and in some instances are the products of bacterial en-  zymatic metabolism of dietary substrates 13-16. this finding  is based on the observation that is and pcs are present at sig-  nificantly lower concentrations in end-stage renal disease  esrd patients who have undergone prior total colectomy 15  and the finding that is production is much lower in germ-free rodents as compared with conventional rodents 17. indole is produced from tryptophan by intestinal bacterial tryptopha- nases.

taking into account variability and discrimination power the lda model then ranks the taxa based on relative differences between two samples.results clinical outcomesthere were no adverse clinical events during the study.effects of vancomycin on solute concentrationsbefore receiving vancomycin on days 2 and 0 the mean levels of is agreed closely and were markedly elevated 35.50 6 9.3 se and 39.34 6 9.44 se lgml respectively compared with the means of normal subjects in two prior studies 0.89 lgml 91.1 lgml 25. levels of pcs were similarly elevated 28.85 67.37 se and 47.49 6 7.54 se lgml respectively compared with mean levels in normal subjects 1.93 lgml 25 table 2. the baseline pre-dialysis values for is and pcs were highly vari- able among the 10 subjects in this study figure 2a comparable to our prior observations in esrd patients 9 and a larger group of patients with ckd reported by suchy-dicey et al.

a study of the response to ciprofloxacin in three normal subjects observed 'taxonomic composition of the community closely resembled its pretreatment state by 4 weeks after the end of treatment but several taxa failed to recover within 6 months' 31. it is not clear at this time whether the persistent decrease in population diversity in our subjects was related to the specific effect of vancomycin the uremic state or some other factor not identified.while the primary focus of this pilot study was to compare the gut production of two uremic metabolites is and pcs and microbiome changes in response to perturbation of the gut flora by an oral antibiotic the very great variation in the 'baseline' plasma concentrations of the two solutes warrants comment.

these results in-  dicate potential shifts in bacterial functions that were more prom-  inent early following the vancomycin treatment.discussion this pilot study provides data that confirms our prediction that  antibiotic-induced alteration of the gut bacterial populations would alter plasma concentrations of is and pcs both import- ant gut microbiota-derived metabolites.since genes encoding the degradation of tyrosine and tryp- tophan have been identified in multiple bacterial families that colonize the human gut 30 the effects of antibiotic interven- tion on the tryptophan- and tyrosine-degrading microbiota were not predictable.

protein-binding limits the glomerular filtration of is which is actively secreted by oat 1 and oat 3 on the basolateral membrane of proximal tubular cells 2-4. residual renal function rrf continued urine pro- duction in patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis or peri- toneal dialysis represents a significant contribution of tubular secretion of protein-bound solutes and osmotically obligated fluid to unreabsorbed glomerular filtrate 3 33 34. some of the variability in plasma is concentration among esrd patients might be related to the extent that oat-mediated proximal tubular secretion is preserved but the great variability in pub- lished values of is and pcs in patients with esrd 32 and the small difference in is values in patients with and without rrf9 make it unlikely that differences in renal excretion of is and pcs account for the great variability among patients.downloaded fmromi chtrtopsbi oacmadeempice.orutpu.crombandttiaornticbley-aobsrtaral cvta32n1c1o1m80y9c30i 9n67601815similar considerations might apply to the observed variation  in the protein-bound pcs.

finally we recognize that further studies will be needed to determine whether the effects of vancomycin on uremic solutes and the gut microbiome will per- sist increase or decrease with repeated administration of vancomycin.

the prominent role of the gut in the generation of uremic solutes 13-16 supports our conclusion that the effect of vancomycin on their plasma concentrations was most likely related to compositional microbiome changes.

several solutes in this latter group identified as 'uremic solutes' including indoxyl sul- fate is and p-cresyl sulfate pcs are actively transported by organic anion transporters oats in the proximal renal tubule 2-5. observational studies have suggested a relationship be- tween the plasma concentration of is and pcs both gut-derived 'uremic solutes' and the frequency of cardiovascular disease in patients with chronic kidney disease ckd 6-8. uremic plasma has been found to induce dysregulation of the expres- sion of more than 2000 genes in cultured human renal tubular cells.

the fact that these protein-bound  uremic solutes believed to be toxic are poorly removed by  hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis has led to efforts to alter the gut microbiome to reduce is and pcs production.we here examine the effects of orally administered vanco-  mycin on the plasma concentration of is and pcs in relation to  changes in fecal microbiome composition in a small group of patients with esrd undergoing chronic hemodialysis.

in contrast is plasma concentrations and generation rates were  unchanged 38. recently a randomized controlled study of the effect of synbiotic pre- and probiotic therapy on the is and pcs concentration in ckd patients also showed significant re- ductions in pcs but not is 39.to our knowledge there have been no prior studies to assess the reduction of these uremic toxins by antibiotic suppression of the gut microbiome.

as the population of uremic patients that might be considered for long-term antibiotic is very large con- sideration should be given to the possible adverse effects of long-term use of any antibiotic agent including the develop- ment of antibiotic resistance.we recognize that there is precedent for the long-term administration of antibiotics in the prophylaxis against beta- hemolytic streptococcal infections to prevent recurrent rheum- atic fever prophylactic antibiotic administration to patients with cystic fibrosis and use of oral administration of poorly ab- sorbed antibiotics in patients with hepatic encephalopathy.

these findings suggest that alteration of the gut microbiome by an antibiotic might provide an important strat- egy in reducing the levels of is and pcs in esrd.keywords atherosclerosis chronic renal failure gut micro- biome indoxyl sulfate p-cresyl sulfateintroduction vanholder and the eutox group 1 identified more than 100 solutes that were significantly increased in concentration in the plasma of patients with reduced glomerular filtration.

the kidney and uremic toxin removal glomerulus or tubule semin nephrol 2014 34 191-208grantham jj irwin rl qualizza pb et al.

our finding is in ac- cord with a previous study in 75 patients undergoing mainten- ance hemodialysis which reported is values ranging from 1.1 to44.2 lgml and pcs concentrations ranging from 0.9 to84.0 lgml 32. meijers et al.

