in the present study we employed this novel approach to study and revisit the subject of denture microbiome specifically with relation to denture malodour a growing field with the rise in life expectancy.results of the present study show several differ- ences characterizing the microbial populations asso- ciated with malodourous dentures as compared with non-malodourous ones both in composition and diversity.

there is clear evidence of bacteria in the oral cavity especially late colonizers and anaerobics to relyon other bacteria residing in the outer layers of the bio- film for metabolism and growth by providing for exam- ple oxygen depletion and mucin deglycosylation .furthermore clustering analysis relying on core species demonstrated two separate clusters one dom- inantly representing the malodour group and another comprised mainly of non-malodour subjects.within the limitation of the present study focusing on the microbiome of dentures malodour and less on the overall clinical parameters of all the clinical parameters measured in the present study regarding health status and denture age and condition only denture hygiene practice showed any association with the absence of den- ture malodour even ill-fitting ones.

microbiome associated with denture mal- odour using next generation molecular based microbial identification techniques.materials and methodsstudy populationtwenty-six subjects mean age 71-6.4 10 males 16 females from the tel aviv university dental geriatric clinic participated in the study.

the dna concentration was 50-100 ng ml-1 determined using a nanodrop 2000 spectrophotometer.polymerase chain reaction pcr amplification and sequencingbacterial 16 s rdna were amplified using the 16 s forward primer 341 f cs1-5'-acactgacgaca- tggttctacannnncctacgggaggcagcagand reverse primer 806 r cs2-5'-tacggtagca- gagacttggtctggactachvgggtw tcta-at.

in the present study we utilized next generation deep sequencing techniques to revisit the microbiome associated with denture malodour a growing field with the rise in life expectancy.

the study population comprised 26 full dentures patients mean age 71-6.4 10 males 16 females who visited the tel aviv university dental geriatric clinic.

the aim of the present study is to characterize the microbial popula- tion i.e.

subjects carrying full dentures on their upper maxilla with no remaining teeth or implants were included in the study.

subjectsc 2018 iop publishing ltdwho used antibiotics for three weeks prior to study or were carrying new dentures less than one month in use were excluded.

all subjects signed an informed consent form and the study protocol was approved by the tel aviv university institutional ethics committee.experimental protocolsubjects were asked to refrain from eating or drinking for three hours prior to measurements.

p value  0.05 was considered statistically significant.resultsthe study population showed normal distribution in malodour levels and was statistically approved based on significance in variation and diversity differences between the two subgroups.

other genera such as fusobacterium porphyromonas and prevotella which were on average more abundantin the malodour group did not show statistical sig- nificance due to the high variance within the groups.in the present study we define common bacteria i.e.

microbiome diversity analysis shannon diversity index demonstrated statistically significant higher diversity p0.008 mann- whitney in the malodour samples as compared with the non-malodour ones figure .the common bacterial species based clustering analysis shown in figure demonstrates two distinct clusters one that comprises 75 malodour positive samples 1216 left-hand side figure  and anotherthat comprises 80 non-malodourous samples 810 right-hand side figure .discussionour ability to study the complex microbial population of the oral cavity has been limited by our inability to cultivate and therefore identify most of the oral microorganisms.

for example in the present study several butyric acid producing bacteria e.g.

core microbiome utilized in the present study has provided some support for this premise in two aspects diversity and clustering.

