germ-free gf mice had dramatically decreased body fat despite having higher food intake both of which were normalized after colonization with a conventional gut microbiota 83. shortly after this it was discovered that there was a different gut microbial ecology associated with obesity 84 85 and that the gut microbiota connected with obesity was associated with an increased capacity for dietary energy harvest 86. indeed colonization of gf mice with a gut microbiota originating from an obese human resulted in a substantial increase in total body fat compared with a lean gut microbiota 86. nonetheless even though a tremendous body of evidence indicates that the gut microbiota plays a key role in metabolic disorders it was shown recently that a high-fat diet was able to drive obesity in mice regardless of the gut microbial composition 87. in addition a recent meta-analysis demon- strated that the association between the gut microbial composi- tion found in human feces and obesity is relatively weak 88.the majority of the composition of the gut microbiota is composed of the phyla firmicutes including lactobacillus clostridium and enterococcus and bacteroidetes including bacteroides with less from the phyla actinobacteria bifi- dobacteria proteobacteria escherichia coli fusobacteria verrucomicrobia and cyanobacteria 6 89. recently 2 population-based gut microbiome analysis studies demonstrated that the core microbiota within human populations is consid- erably robust 90 91. nonetheless distinct compositional differences have been demonstrated in individuals with obesity 14 16 anorexia nervosa 17-19 92 93 and kwashiorkor 20. in regard to obesity phylum-level changes such as increased actinobacteria 14 and firmicutes and decreased bacteroidetes have been reported 84 as well as genus-level changes 16. notably the changes in firmicutes and bacter- oidetes have not consistently been reported 94 95. interest- ingly anorexia is also associated with decreased bacteroidetes and increased actinobacteria and verrucomicrobia levels 19.in addition to compositional differences studies have reported a decrease in gut microbial diversity in obesity 14 and anorexia nervosa 17-19. interestingly a recent study reported that weight gain in anorexia nervosa did not result in the recovery of intestinal microbiota composition perturbations but did lead to increased microbial richness 19. this decreased gut microbial diversity could play a key role in the associated dysregulation of appetite metabolism and food-related behaviors.

j nutr 2017147727-45.keywords nutrition microbiota obesity metabolism behaviorintroductionthe role of the gut microbiota in the regulation of physiology in both health and disease is becoming increasingly recognized 1 2. these trillions of intestinal occupants form an integral evolutionary-driven relation with the host in maintaining homeostasis 3. the gut microbiota is comprised of archaea viruses protozoa and mostly bacteria the quantity of which exceeds that of the eukaryotic cells in the human body 4 5. more startling is the fact that the cumulative amount of unique genes in the gut microbiota the microbiome is 100-fold higher than that of the human genome further indicating its signifi- cance 6. accumulating data also show that the gut microbiota significantly affects the bidirectional communication between the gastrointestinal tract and the brain which has been coined1 supported by science foundation ireland sfi grant nos.

e-mail a 2017 american society for nutrition.the microbiota-gut-brain axis 7-9. moreover the gut micro- biota is now being implicated in various aspects of disease 10 11.in particular the influence of the microbiome on host energy metabolism and thus metabolic and eating-related disorders is becoming increasingly established 12 13. for instance altered intestinal microbiota composition has been demonstrated for obesity 14-16 anorexia nervosa 17-19 and forms of severe acute malnutrition such as kwashiorkor 20. in addition the gut microbiota and its metabolites are subsequently altered after interventions that address some of these conditions such as bariatric or roux-en-y gastric bypass surgery 21-23 and dietary interventions 24. thus accumulating evidence indi- cates the potential of targeting the gut microbiota as an effective therapeutic option for mitigating metabolic and eating disorders 12 25 26. it is important to note that the gut microbiota has a key regulatory role in both host metabolism and central appetite which together can modify host eating behavior in metabolic disorders and eating disorders such as obesity and malnutrition 27-29.the homeostatic control of energy balance is highly regulated by a complex neuronal network wherein the hypothalamus plays a key role connecting to the brainstem and variousmanuscript received december 23 2016. initial review completed february 6 2017. revision accepted february 21 2017.727first published online march 29 2017 doi10.3945jn.116.240481.forebrain regions 30. there are various peripheral anorexi- genic hormones such as glucagon-like peptide 1 glp-16 peptide yy pyy insulin and leptin that increase satiety whereas ghrelin is able to induce hunger 31. within the hypothalamus pro-opiomelanocortin pomc and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-containing neurons reg- ulate satiety whereas neurons that contain neuropeptide y and those that contain agouti-related peptide are involved in hunger signaling 30. these hypothalamic neurons project to other brain circuits such as the mesolimbic rewards circuit which is highly involved in food reward addiction and impulsive choice 32. as such signaling of the previously mentioned peripheral hormones has also been implicated in both addiction 33 and impulsivity 34. this additionally highlights the involvement of physiologic andor psychological components in eating disorders 35 36. importantly the influence of the microbiota-gut-brain axis is becoming increasingly recognized in psychological and psychiatric disorders 37 38 indicating that this axis could play a role in the physiologic andor psychological components of metabolic and eating disorders.this review focuses on the diverse mechanisms through which the gut microbiota influences host metabolism feeding behavior and appetite as a crucial piece of the puzzle in conditions wherein food intake and body weight are dysregu- lated.

in addition obesity is associated with an increased prevalence of compulsive food behavior 32 as well as food-related impulsivity 44. there is a growing realization that there is involvement of the gut microbiota in obesity especially considering that gut microbiota features could be used to predict glucose responses enabling personalized dietary interventions 45. notably the gut microbiota is regarded as an important factor contributing to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease which is often associated with obesity 46. for 25 of all nonalcoholic fatty liver disease patients this condition progresses into a progressive form of liver disease called nonalcoholic steatohepatitis potentially resulting in cirrhosis hepatocellular carcinomas and liver dys- function 47. the importance of the gut microbiota in obesity is also emphasized by the fact that interventions targeting this disorder including bariatric surgery and roux-en-y gastric bypass surgery in particular induce substantial weight loss and are associated with alterations in gut microbiota composition 21-23 48. this is particularly important in regard to the mechanisms of actions including changes in gut hormones bile acid and lipid metabolism and neuronal signaling 49.binge-eating disorder.

in addition the gut microbiota has already been linked to cocaine use in mice 329736 van de wouw et al.and alcohol-dependence in humans 330. it is also interesting to note that the administration of the principal psychoactive constituent of cannabis d9-tetrahydrocannabinol alleviates the high-fat diet-induced increases in fat mass and body weight that are associated with an altered gut microbiota although it is unclear whether the altered gut microbiota composition in conjunction with d9-tetrahydrocannabinol treatment played a causative role in this reduction in fat mass and body weight 331. overall much is still unknown about the role of the gut microbiota in food addiction and other eating-related behaviors in particular and additional research is warranted for a more comprehensive picture of the role of the gut microbiota in eating- related behavior.the microbiota-gut-brain axis in metabolic and eating disorder comorbiditieseating and metabolic disorders are often associated with other behavioral comorbidities such as anxiety and depression 35 36 and it is thus conceivable that there is a strong bidirectional interplay with these behaviors.

atypical antipsychotics represent the mainstay of treatment for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder and they are known for their various side-effects such as weight gain and metabolic dysfunction 56-58. in particular the drug olanzapine is known for its weight gain- inducing effects 59 60. rodents receiving olanzapine also have an altered gut microbiota composition 61 62. in addition rats that also received an antibiotic cocktail had reduced olanzapine-6 abbreviations used clpb caseinolytic protease b cns central nervous system ffa2 ffa receptor 2 ffa3 ffa receptor 3 fxr farnesoid x receptor gaba g-aminobutyric acid gf germ-free gip gastric inhibitory polypeptide glp-1 glucagon-like peptide 1 gpcr g protein-coupled receptor msh melanocyte-stimulating hormone pomc pro-opiomelanocortin pyy peptide yy.728 van de wouw et al.induced body weight gain and various markers of metabolic dysfunction further highlighting the involvement of the gut microbiota 61. another medication is the second-generation antipsychotic risperidone often used to treat bipolar disorder and schizophrenia in children and adolescents 63. chronicrisperidone treatment results in altered gut microbial composi- tion with enriched pathways that have been implicated in weight gain 64. furthermore mice receiving risperidone treatment displayed altered gut microbiota composition and body weight gain which was primarily attributed to decreased energy expenditure 65. in addition this trait was transmissible via fecal matter transplantation and via treatment with phage isolated from risperidone-treated microbiota 65.anorexia nervosa.

the importance of the gut microbiota is emphasized by the fact that antibiotics such as amoxicillin and cefdinir reduce mortality in children with kwashiorkor 81 82.the gut microbiota as a key player in obesity and metabolic and eating-related disordersone of the early and pivotal experiments demonstrating the key role of the gut microbiota in host energy metabolism showed thatmice with an absent microbiota i.e.

this combined with the fact that many microbes are specialized in the use of specific nutrients may result in the possibility that microbes influence the host to consume their preferred nutrients or to influence host eating behavior in general 96. this concept is in agreement with the work of fetissov 28 who showed that bacterial components and metabolites are able to influence intestinal satiety pathways thus controlling host appetite and satiety.key determinants of the adult gut microbiota composition in metabolic and eating disordersgut microbial composition especially in early life is determined by various factors 97 98. perturbation of the gut microbiota in the form of severe acute malnutrition during this period ismicrobiota and eating behavior 729associated with persistent relative microbiota immaturity 77 and this could also result in alterations in the development of organs tissues andor body systems 99 which may subse- quently increase the predisposition to various diseases at an older age 100. indeed it is postulated that microbiota immaturity could be causally related to the neurologic abnor- malities associated with child malnutrition 100. it is likely that this could also affect the neuroendocrine systems associated with appetite food intake and body weight both during this developmental phase and later in life.

as such influencing one of these factors will most likely result in alterations in the others making the gut microbiota easily accessible and manipulable for targeting host metabolism and appetite control.gut microbiota and its metabolites as a therapeutic target in host metabolism and appetite controlthere are 4 primary means by which the gut microbiota can be modulated 1 the administration of live beneficial bacterial strains probiotics 2 the administration of host-indigestible dietary fibers which undergo bacterial fermentation and subse- quently stimulate the growth of certain types of bacteria prebiotics 3 the administration of targeted antibiotics and finally 4 fecal microbiota transplantation table 1. both pro- and prebiotics have already been demonstrated to represent a potent strategy to significantly improve metabolism in overweight and obese individuals 12 130. conversely the effects of pre- and probiotics on undernourished individuals have been relatively poorly studied even though current evidence indicates that these could improve therapeutic outcomes 26 140. rodent studies have demonstrated that probiotic supplementation enhances recovery from starvation 141-143. nonetheless much is still unknown about the underlying mechanisms under which pre- and probiotics influence host physiology and behavior.

at this level the gut microbiota is able to influence primary bile acid synthesis in the liver both the deconjugation of these bile acids and conversion into secondary bile acids in the colon 164 and finally the reabsorption of primary bile acids in the ileum 165 166. theproduction of bile acids is highly regulated through the nuclear farnesoid x receptor fxr by negative feedback inhibition 167 through which bile acids are able to signal as both agonists and antagonists 149. gf and antibiotic studies highlight the impor- tance of the gut microbiota in bile acid metabolism and fxr signaling 168-171 both of which are crucial for host metab- olism and appetite 169 172. in addition takeda g protein- coupled receptor 5 is highly expressed in enteroendocrine l cells which upon activation results in the peripheral release of the anorexigenic hormones glp-1 and pyy 173 174. as such enhancing the production of secondary bile acids through the increase of bacterial bile salt hydrolase enzymes results in reduced weight gain serum cholesterol and liver tgs 175. it is also interesting to note that bile acids influence gut microbial composition indicating a bidirectional interaction 149. this is highlighted in fxr-deficient mice which have an altered microbiota and bile acid composition 169.the impact of the gut microbiota is not only restricted to the periphery but can also influence central metabolites.

nonetheless current evidence indicates that scfas represent a potential therapeutic strategy for diseases with alterations in metabolism and appetite.the interplay between gut microbiota and the immune system on host appetiteand metabolismgastrointestinal barrier functionality and permeability are highly affected by the gut microbiota 267. this barrier not only regulates the absorption of nutrients electrolytes and water but also prevents toxic substances and pathogens from entering the circulation from the lumen which makes intestinal barrier functionality a crucial player in the influence of the gut microbiota on its host 268. barrier function and permeability are affected by several stimuli including pathogens commensalbacteria and bacterial products 267 269. low-level translo- cation of substances or microbes across the tight junctions of these luminal antigens is normal and shape a proper adaptive immune system 270. nonetheless excessive intestinal perme- ability often colloquially referred to as ''leaky gut'' is associated with the development of low-grade chronic inflammation and sepsis in which inflammatory mediators are thought to exacer- bate intestinal permeability 271. interestingly decreased intestinal permeability has been reported in individuals suffering from anorexia nervosa 272 whereas increased intestinal permeability has been observed in obesity 273 274 and protein-energy wasting for in-depth discussion see 275. of note scfa supplementation has been demonstrated to improve deficits in intestinal permeability 276-278. obesity-associated increases in intestinal permeability can lead to an increased translocation of gram-negative bacterial-derived lps into the circulation resulting in chronic low-grade systemic inflamma- tion 273 279 280 in a condition called metabolic endotox- emia 281-283. interestingly administration of the antibiotics ampicillin and neomycin decreases cecal lps content and metabolic endotoxemia in both mice with diet-induced obesity and obob mice further emphasizing the role of the gut microbiota in metabolic endotoxemia 284.increased intestinal permeability can facilitate the transloca- tion of gut microbial metabolites into the peripheral circulation.

behav brain res 201527714-31.bercik p denou e collins j jackson w lu j jury j deng y blennerhassett p macri j mccoy kd et al.

a mature gut microbiota configuration resembling that of an adult is reached after the first 2-3 y of age 76. disturbances within this critical time period can result in an immature gut microbiota 77. of note the consequences of having an immature gut microbiome in later life in will be discussed in the section key determinants of the adult gut microbiota composi- tion in metabolic and eating disorders.

they deplete specific gut microbial taxa depending on the particular antibiotic given resulting in long-term alterations in gut microbial composition.fecal microbiota transplantationthis procedure normally is used after antibiotictreatment results in microbiota depletion or in studies of germ-free animal models since fecal microbiota transplantation provides an elegant way to demonstrate gut microbial-dependent effects.particular bacterial strains can affect body weight or symptoms associated with being overweight or obese such as metabolic endotoxemia insulin resistance and cardiometabolic disorders.these increase satiety and affect postprandial glucose and insulin concentrations.

antibiotics interfere with the gut microbiota- immune interaction resulting in immune system perturbations and are associated with clostridium difficile infection when consumed later in life.transplantation of an obese gut microbiota in mice results in a transfer of obesity-associated symptoms similar results are obtained in studies of kwashiorkor.130-132133 134103 104 135-13920 86one of these gut microbial neuroactives is g-aminobutyric acid gaba which is produced by several lactobacillus and bifido- bacterium strains 154. l. reuteri is able to produce histamine 155 156 and acetylcholine is produced by both bacteria and fungi 157 158. in addition tryptophan decarboxylase enzymes have been detected in the human gut microbiota suggesting that the gut microbiota could produce the neurotransmitter trypta- mine 159. furthermore gut microbial b-glucuronidase activity can increase concentrations of catecholamines as noradrenaline and dopamine 160. interestingly close to one-half of the dopamine formed in the human body is produced in the gastrointestinal tract 161. finally indigenous spore-forming gut bacteria are able to modulate local and peripheral host serotonin production 162. much research is still needed to identify how local elevations in the gut of these transmitters can affect host metabolism and even brain function if indeed they can.

