studies have shown that aerobic and anaerobic metabolic activities can co-exist in granules like the simultaneous removal of organic compounds nitrogen and phosphorus     simultaneous nitrification and denitrification     or simultaneous nitritation and anammox    .although the aerobic granular sludge process was first reported in the early 1990s     we still have an incomplete understanding of the parameters that drive the development of the microbial community composition of aerobic granules    .

knowledge about microbial diversity with specific functional guilds underdifferent operating conditions can be important for engineers to predict the stability of reactor functions during the start-up and continued reactor operation.keywords microbial community dynamics aerobic granular sludge microbial functional groups ecosystem functions organic loading rate nitrogen removal wastewater treatment sequencing batch reactorsintroductionthe aerobic granular sludge process is an emerging technology for the treatment of domestic as well as industrial wastewater streams  .

aerobic respiration.uptake and storage of organic carbonorganic carbon can be removed from wastewater through different metabolic pathways for example assimilation aerobic respiration denitrification eps and pha production.

52 329-338. mishima k. and nakamura m. 1991. self-immobilization of aerobic activated sludge-a pilot study of the aerobic upflow sludge blanket process in municipal sewage treatment.

2001. microscopic observation of aerobic granulation in sequential aerobic sludge blanket reactor.

studied aerobic granular sludge reactors operated for cod removal at loading rates of 1.5 3.0 and 4.5 kg m-3 d-1 and found that at different olrs the bacterial populations changed at different rates.

similar trends of diversity being dependent on the organic load during granulation have been shown for glucose-fed aerobic granular reactors   .the large difference between the composition of the communities early in the experiment could be a result of the highly dynamic conditions and stochastic processes.

59 436-444. bassin j. p. pronk m. kraan r. kleerebezem r. and van loosdrecht m. c. m. 2011. ammonium adsorption in aerobic granular sludge activated sludge and anammox granules.

181 312-320. de kreuk m. k. heijnen j. j. and van loosdrecht m. c. m. 2005. simultaneous cod nitrogen and phosphate removal by aerobic granular sludge.

2010. performance and microbial community composition dynamics of aerobic granular sludge from sequencing batch bubble column reactors operated at 20 degrees c 30 degrees c and 35 degrees c. appl.

2015. filamentous bacteria existence in aerobic granular reactors.

2014. aerobic granular sludge for simultaneous accumulation of mineral phosphorus and removal of nitrogen via nitrite in wastewater.

2010. microbial population dynamics of granular aerobic sequencing batch reactors during start-up and steady state periods.

1997. aerobic granular sludge in a sequencing batch reactor.

bioscience 46 609-620. pronk m. abbas b. al-zuhairy s. h. k. kraan r. kleerebezem r. and van loosdrecht m. c. m. 2015. effect and behaviour of different substrates in relation to the formation of aerobic granular sludge.

