the lumen of the small intestine had a large unoccupied area figs   whereas most of the colonic luminal area was filled with bacteria and dietary residues  also see .indigenous bacteria colonize onto starch granulesfish analysis of the intestinal digesta revealed several types of bacterial localization.

for exam- ple rod-shaped bacteria accumulated onto granular structures  and many fusiform bacteria colonized inside the plant cell wall .

the starch-colonizing bacteria were specificallystructures colonized by bacteria in the digesta.

in this study we were able to demonstrate that bifidobacteria adhere to starch granules not only in vitro but also in the intestinal environment where hundreds of other types of bacteria are living together.in fish analysis only bifidobacteria were detected as starch-colonizing bacteria and other major bacterial groups showed no association with starch.

the effects may depend on whether or not each individual has dominant bacteria with the ability to capture and effectively utilize starch granules and whether or not the bacteria belong to bifi- dobacteria.

this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the  which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.data availability statement all sequence data are available from ddbj ngs data bioprojecteach species of intestinal bacteria requires a nutritional source to maintain its population in the intestine.

we believe that our analytical approach could possibly be applied to other nutritional factors and can be a powerful tool to investigate in vivo relationships between bacteria and environ- mental factors in the intestine.accession number prjdb5162 16s rdna sequences of isolates lc187655-lc187663.funding this work was funded by yakult central institute .

more clarity regarding microbial ecology in the intestine will provide clues for developing methods to control the microbiota.indigenous bacteria are known to successfully maintain their numbers in the intestinal microbiota hence they are presumed to have established an ecological or nutritional niche that enables them to thrive.

information regarding what nutrients are directly utilized by which bacteria has accumulated through in vitro studies.

thus information is still limited regarding the degradation processes of dietary macromolecules which end up with utilization by specific bacteria among the various intestinal bacteria.to elucidate the niche of organisms it is important to understand their spatial distribution which may reflect their required environmental factors.

these studies revealed associations of several bacterial groups with dietary or particulate structures and highlighted that some intestinal bacteria have microscale habitats that may reflect their nutrient demands.

results indicate that a specific bacteria colonized onto a single dietary factor proposing a bacterial strategy to monopolize the dietary nutrient.materials and methodsall animal experiments were performed according to the guidelines of the yakult central institute and were approved by the animal experimental committee of yakult central institute.animalsc57bl6j jcl mice 6 weeks old were purchased from clea japan tokyo japan and main- tained in a specific pathogen-free facility.

we judged these granules as inadequate for analysis because fish analysis confirmed that there were no or few bacteria in intact plant tissues that contained chunks of starch.

subsequently cultured bacteria were examined by fish by using a bifidobac- terium-specific probe bif153 .

bacteria were visualized clearly by hematoxylin-eosin staining a bacterial universal fish probe eub338 and dapi .

