an asterisk marks the gmha gene when deleted resulting in resistance to p1 phage.b-f lifespan extensions by different functional categories of bacterial mutants are represented by dhns b darog c dsecb d dlpp e and dpbl f respectively.see figure s1 for information on the control bacteria and the design of the screen figure s2 for information of viability and colonization capacities of the mutants figure s7 for the enrichment of genes involved in chorismate metabolism and tables s1-s3 for lifespan data including animal numbers mean and median lifespans and statistics.abcdfigure 2. bacterial mutants attenuate age-related pathologies in the hostsixteen bacterial mutants significantly increase the survival of the c. elegans glp-1ar202 mutants which exhibit early death due to age-related progression of germline tumors p  0.001 log rank test.ectopic expression of human amyloid-b ab in the c. elegans cl2006 transgenic strain dvis2unc-54pab1-42 leads to a shortened lifespan.

total n the number of total animals censor n the number of censored animals lifespan extension the percentage of lifespan extension in different c. elegans mutants on each bacterial mutant compared to those on parental control bacteria p values bacterial mutant versus parental control by log rank test.see figure s3 for effects of bacterial mutants on c. elegans feeding and defecation behaviors.involvement of low food intake in most bacteria-induced longevity effects.in addition cr can be genetically mimicked using c. elegans eat-2 mutants that have defective pharyngeal contraction during feeding .

effects of longevity-promoting bacterial mutants on c. elegans feeding and defecation behaviors related to pharyngeal pumping rates were measured in day-1-old wt worms grown on the bacterial mutants that prolong lifespan.defecation interval length was examined in day-1-old wt worms grown on the bacterial mutants that prolong lifespan.pharyngeal pumping rates were measured in day-1-old eat-2ad465 mutants grown on the bacterial mutants that prolong lifespan.p  0.05 compared to the control student's t test error bars represent sem.figure s4.

among the 29 lifespan-extend- ing bacterial mutants we identified 14 that significantly prolong the lifespan of the ab transgenic strains b table s5 and 12 of them substantially delay age-associated paralysis c. altogether we discovered 13 bacterial mutants that protect c. elegans from lethality of both germline tumors and ab accumulation d suggesting they may improve the overall fitness of the host.interaction of beneficial microbial factors with host longevity mechanismsto gain insight into the molecular mechanisms mediating the beneficial effects of these bacterial mutants we examined whether they act through several known longevity mechanisms in the host including the insulininsulin-like growth factor igf-1 and the target of rapamycin tor signaling pathways as well as caloric restriction cr.

we investigated the lifespan of the daf-16mgdf47 rsks-1ok1255 raga-1ok386 and rict-1ft7 c. elegans mutants grown on each bacterial mutant to determine whether these host factors contribute to the longevity effects of the bacterial mutants.

viability and host colonization capacity of the longevity-promoting bacterial mutants related to except drecc the bacterial mutants that prolong c. elegans lifespan do not exhibit decreased survival when provided to the host p  0.05 student's t test.

when providing similar amounts of bacte- ria figure s2a we found that only two bacterial mutants low- ered the pharyngeal pumping rate figure s3a and another two slowed down defecation figure s3b suggesting minimalfigure 3. genetic interaction analyses with host longevity mechanismsbacterial mutants were examined for their effects on the lifespans of the daf-16mgdf47 rsks-1ok1255 raga-1ok386 rict-1ft7 and eat-2ad465 c. elegans mutants.

elegans mutants are deficient in the mitochondrial electron transport chain etc  suggesting host mitochondria as essential cellular targets of ca.mitochondria are highly dynamic organelles and their architec- ture is shaped by a balance between fusion and fission dehijfigure 5. purified colanic acid promotes host longevity across speciesa-c ca significantly prolongs the lifespan of wild-type c. elegans when supplemented with gram-negative e. coli bw25113 a and ht115 b and with gram- positive b. subtilis c p  0.001 ca versus vehicle control ddh2o log rank test.ca supplementation does not prolong the lifespan of c. elegans grown on lon-deficient e. coli b op50 p  0.5 log rank test but resumes its effects when lon expression is restored in op50 p  0.001 log rank test.e.

supplementation of dlon extracts extends the lifespan of c. elegans by 15 p  0.001 log-rank test while extracts from the dlondwcad double mutant do not significantly affect c. elegans lifespan p  0.5 log-rank test.supplementation with other polysaccharides--hyaluronic acid ha and alginic acid aa--does not extend the lifespan of c. elegans p  0.1 log-rank test.

rcsa-dependent ca production and beneficial effects conferred by three bacterial mutants related to a ca production is elevated in three bacterial mutants dhyfr duidc and dsapd p  0.01 p  0.05 one-way anova compared to the parental control followed by bonferroni's multiple comparison test.b-d the deletion mutation of drcsa abrogates host longevity conferred by dhyfr b dsapd c and duidc d p  0.05 drcsa versus the double mutants log- rank test.

in a model or- ganism c. elegans we systematically identified bacterial genes whose deletion leads to lifespan extension and revealed the po- tential of a dozen of these bacterial mutants in attenuating lethality due to age-associated progression of germline tumor and accumulation of pathological ab.

we next validated the longevity ef- fects of these 68 e. coli mutants in wild-type c. elegans at 20oc and identified 35 bacterial mutants that significantly prolonged host lifespan by more than 10 p  0.001 table s2.

the foxo transcription factor daf-16 is a necessary downstream mediator of insulinigf-1figure 1. bacterial mutants promote host longevitya genome-wide screen of the e. coli bw25113 single-gene knockout library identified 29 mutants that prolong c. elegans lifespan by 10 p  0.001 log rank test.

out of the 29 bacterial mutants there are 7 13 11 and 19 mutantsunable to significantly prolong the lifespan of the c. elegans daf-16 rsks-1 raga-1 and rict-1 mutants respectively p  0.05  suggesting that they act through the host insu- linigf-1 andor tor signaling pathway to regulate longevity.cr is an extensively studied intervention that promotes longevity in a variety of species .

mitochondrial hormesis in the nervous system has been previously shown to generate sys- temic signals and exert beneficial effects cell non-autonomouslyfigure 7. ca acts on host mitochondria to promote longevitya the dlon bacterial mutant extends the lifespan of c. elegans hif-1ia4 skn-1zu135 and pink-1ok3538 mutants but is not able to do so in the mutants ofelegans etc components nuo-6qm200 or isp-1qm15 p  0.001 n.s.

