this change is associated with an increase in the regional heterogeneity of the respiratory microbiome identifiable through microbiome analyses of bronchial biopsies 5. these severity-related changes of the respiratory microbiome found in copd patients has been also reported in cystic fibrosis where the respiratory flora shows similarly an overrepresentation of genera which included ppms 17-19.most microbiome studies on copd have used sputumas the sample representing the respiratory system due to its easy recovery and standardized processing procedureannals of translational medicine vol 5 no 12 june 2017page 3 of 52021. in analyses of the respiratory microbiome however it must be considered that sputum originates mainly from the in the proximal bronchi which harbor a flora that have shown clear-cut differences with the microbial pattern found in distal bronchi and the alveolar space 2223 that is targeted through bronchial biopsies the protected specimen brush or bronchoalveolar lavage samples that have been shown as microbiologically equivalent 5 while in copd the microbial diversity pattern has been demonstrated to be different in sputum and distal samples 24 a finding confirming the differences between the proximal bronchial flora and the microorganisms lodged in distal bronchi and the lung.exacerbationmicrobial cultures have related the appearance of respiratory symptoms in copd exacerbations to the incorporation of new strains to the bronchial flora 25 but this change in the bacterial flora justifies only part of the exacerbations.

these functional changes may be important because through them the resident community as a whole show its power to modify important metabolic patterns.keywords chronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd respiratory microbiome exacerbation bronchial colonization proteobacteria microbial interactionsubmitted mar 14 2017. accepted for publication mar 27 2017. doi 10.21037atm.2017.04.20view this article at the respiratory microbiomethe bronchial tree and the lung have been considered sterile in healthy subjects till the last decade in front of the negativity of cultures obtained from these sites 12. the introduction of culture-independent techniques for the microbiological analysis of respiratory samples however has confirmed that the respiratory system hosts a large number of microorganisms which include a wide range bacteria viruses and fungi.

bacterial diversity loss often related to an increase in the relative abundance of proteobacteria is associated with greater severity in copd and may be one of the determinants that influence its progression as has been previously demonstrated in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis 37. metagenomics and the analysis of bacterial rna will be able to provide functional information on the respiratory microbiome detailing interactions between viruses fungi and bacteria and potentially to facilitating the design of intervention studies aimed at conserving the flora that acts as positive mutualist as opposed to the respiratory pathogens that progressively replace it when copd progresses to advanced disease.acknowledgementsfunding the work was partly funded by ciber de enfermedades respiratorias - ciberes instituto de salud carlos iii fis pi1500167 agaur separ and fucap.footnoteconflicts of interest the author has no conflicts of interest todeclare.referencesrosell a monso e soler n et al.

16s rrna gene analysis is unable to obtain virus and fungal information however and these microorganisms need to be targeted with other sequencing approaches.in the normal subject the microbial flora of therespiratory tree is phylogenetically diverse 56 with firmicutes bacteroidetes and proteobacteria as their most frequent phyla and a low frequency of otus corresponding to potentially pathogenic microorganisms such as those of the genus haemophilus 7. the microbiome harbored by the bronchial tree and the oropharynx have a close similarity in the healthy subject mainly due to aspiration of oropharyngeal secretions during sleep 89. the local environment of the bronchial tree and the lung is able to modify the microbiome after the aspiration of secretions however as shown by the higher relative abundance of specific otus part of the prevotella genus in respiratory samples 9.the regular exposure to tobacco smoke changes the microbiome of the oropharynx in healthy smokers increasing the presence of a restricted number of genera which attain high relative abundance a pattern that may be considered as dysbiosis 10. these smoking-induced changes of the oropharyngeal flora are not extensive to the bronchial tree in absence of respiratory disease because the analyses of respiratory flora have not found differences between smokers and subjects who have never smoked when they have a normal lung function 11. these findings suggest that the response to smoke components is magnified in the oropharynx and would be found in the bronchial tree only when chronic symptoms andor an abnormal lung function appear.16s rrna pyrosequencing allow not only to assess themonso.

email or abstract the introduction of culture-independent techniques for the microbiological analysis of respiratory samples has confirmed that the respiratory system hosts a large number of microorganisms which include a wide range of bacteria.

functional changes during acute episodes maypage 4 of 5be important because the resident community as a whole appears as able to modify its metabolic patterns during the exacerbation in spite that there were only one specific bacteria which increase their relative abundance.conclusionsalthough the microbial composition of the respiratory flora in copd has been known through microbiome analyses the involvement of the respiratory flora in the pathogenesis of the disease and especially the role microorganisms considered non-pathogenic by culture-based microbiology is practically unknown.

however its analysis using functional metagenomics an approach that describes the genomic potential of the community 35 has shown that clear differences may be found in carbohydrate metabolism cancer cell growth and death transport and catabolism pathways during exacerbations 36. huang et al.

microbiome in copdgarcia-nunez m marti s puig c et al.

future microbiol 201712379-92.erb-downward jr thompson dl han mk et al.

plos one 20116e16384.charlson es bittinger k chen j et al.

plos one 20127e42786.charlson es bittinger k haas ar et al.

am j respir crit care med 2011184957-63.dickson rp erb-downward jr freeman cm et al.

ann am thorac soc 201512821-30.bassis cm erb-downward jr dickson rp et al.

mbio 20156e00037.wu j peters ba dominianni c et al.

isme j 2016102435-46.munck c helby j westergaard cg et al.

