was reported to be human pathogenic bacteria species and were identified in field collected sand flies in this study.endosymbiont wolbachia was reported in several studies including tsetse flies mosquitos and also sand flies.

openreceived 18 july 2017accepted 3 october 2017 published xx xx xxxxmidgut bacterial diversity of wild populations of phlebotomus p. papatasi the vector of zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis zcl in turkeymehmet karakus14 burcin karabey2 saban orcun kalkan2 guven ozdemir2 gizem oguz3 ozge erisoz kasap3 bulent alten3 seray toz1 yusuf ozbel1phlebotomine sand flies are hematophagous insects that harbor bacterial viral and parasitic agents like bartonella sp.

microbiome profiling ofwild-caught sand flies will be of great help in the investigating of possible vector control candidates forparatransgenic control approach.leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by an intracellular protozoon parasite leishmania and is transmitted by the bite of infected female phlebotomine sand flies.

female sand flies acquire leishmania promastigotes from infected hosts and metacyclogenesis a bio- logical transformation from amastigote to promastigote takes place in the midgut of the sand flies.

as a vector control agent in sand flies but the presence of this bacteria and transstadial passage to teneral flies makes wolbachia sp.

comparing to blood fed sand flies sucrose fed sand flies were reported to have highest bac- terial prevalence.

seasonal microbiome profiling studies in field collected sand flies will put forth valuable data in the control of sand flies by transgenic approach.as a conclusion microbiome of four different populations of p. papatasi was profiled in the present study.

6 before midgut dissection step sand flies were transferred to new sterile centrifuge tubes and gently vortexed.after washing steps sand flies were gently dissected under stereomicroscope using single use sterile insect needles.

bacterial diversity of the gut is reported to have significant effects on mosquitos tsetse flies and sand1department of parasitology faculty of medicine ege university izmir turkey.

previous study reveals that newly emerged sand flies were associated with large amount of bacterial dna which could be taken from environment either by feeding or transstadial passage.

one possible reason for low bacterial diversity in ayvacik male pool may be the feeding habit of the sand flies and limited sugar source for males in the study area.bacterial composition of the gut is mirrors the diet of sand fly.

bacterial flora as indicated by pcr-temperature gradient gel electrophoresis tgge of 16s rdna gene fragments from isolated guts of phlebotomine sand flies diptera psychodidae.

diversity of the bacterial and fungal microflora from the midgut and cuticle of phlebotomine sand flies collected in north-western iran.

during the metacyclogenesis leishmania resides permanently in the sand fly gut thus possible bacteria-parasite interactions takes place between microbial community of the gut and parasite.there are several reports about the gut bacterial community of phlebotomus papatasi but there is no data about the bacterial diversity of the turkish sand fly populations.

the bacterial community is dependent to geo- graphical distribution of sand fly and each geographically distinct population may have different bacterial com- positions.

