studies report a high frequency of migraines in patients with cd and vice versa and describe the beneficial effect of a gluten-free diet in these cases 2. also the prevalence of cd among children with irritable bowel syndrome ibs is reported to be 4 times higher than among the general pediatric population 3. using the rome iii diagnostic criteria of functional gastrointestinal disorders would help to distinguish cd from the broad pool of ibs with a potential consequent relief of migraine upon initiation of the appropriate diet.on the other hand recent findings regarding the role of the gastrointestinal microbiota in the gut-brain axis suggests that an unbalanced gut flora i.e.

investigators masked to a patient's group allocation diagnosed functional gastrointestinal disorders using the rome iii diagnostic criteria.eighty-three 32 children and adolescents in the migraine group were diagnosedwithfunctionalgastrointestinaldisorders compared with 118 18 in the control group p00001.

multivariable logistic regression showed a significant association between migraine and three gastrointestinal disorders functional dyspepsia irritable bowel syndrome and abdominal migraine.

the authors concluded that correct recognition would have an impact on the diagnosis and therapeutic management of these pediatric gastrointestinal disorders.

this well conducted multicenter trial included all functional gastrointestinal disorders defined according to rome iii criteria.

association between functional gastrointestinal disorders and migraine in children and adolescents a case-control study.

migraine associated with gastrointestinal disorders review of the literature and clinical implications.

enhanced pro-inflammatory immune responses have been reported with intestinal disorders associated with dysbiosisand increased intestinal permeability just like ibs and celiac disease as well as in migraine patients 4. evidence suggests that alterations in gut microbiota could be a potent mediator in migraine 5 this might explain at least partly the current study results.

