interestingly rats fed ctl formula showed delayed intestinal growth as com- pared to mm fed pups at pn day 15. notably the addition of mfgm normalized most readouts to the levels seen in mm littermates including intestinal crypt depths epithelial cell proliferation makeup of intestinal epithelial cell iec subsets and similar make-up of intestinal microbes at the phylum level.

during murine intestinal develop- ment pcs have been found in small intestinal tissues by pn day 7 with rapid increases observed in followingfigure 2. intestinal proliferation at pn day 15 is increased in formula fed pups with 6 gl mfgm supplementation similar to levels in mm fed pups.

in addition due to the size restriction of rat pups in cups studies utilizing this model have generally terminated on pn days 12-18. as no differences were seen in weight gain between the three diet groups and the ctl and mfgm formula fed groups were administered identical volumes of formula daily the differences noted in intestinal mucosal development are not due to differences in the volume of food consumed or to differences in weight gain.through histological and immunofluorescence analysis we found that mfgm supplementation led to similar intestinal mucosal architecture at small intestinal and colonic sites to that seen in mm pups.

while ctl formula yielded significant deficits in intestinal development as compared to mm littermates addition of mfgm to formula restored intestinal growth paneth and goblet cell numbers and tight junction protein patterns to that of mm pups.

our study thus demonstrates that mfgm supplementation promotes intestinal epi- thelial and microbiome development and confers significant protection against noxious inflammatory stimuli.resultsrat pup growth and gross intestinal characteristics.

as villus lengths and crypt depths are overt markers of intestinal health they were next assessed to determine if intestinal architecture was impacted by mfgm supplementation.

as these assessments noted greater effects on intestinal villus and crypt architecture following 6 gl mfgm supplementation subsequent analysis focused on this dose.next we examined the contribution of iec proliferation to the changes observed in intestinal architecture by immunostaining tissues collected at pn day 15 for the nuclear proliferation marker ki-67.

as many studies and reviews have highlighted the importance of intestinal microbes in postnatal intestinal development we next assessed total microbe numbers in the feces of the three groups supplementary fig.

interestingly although crypt depths were significantly decreased at all three intestinal sites in antibiotic treated mm pups as compared to untreated mm littermates the depths were similar to if not higher than those recorded in untreated ctl formula fed pups c. similar to untreated mm littermates untreated mfgm crypt depths were significantly greater than antibiotic treated pups jejunum mm antibiotic 59.7 mm - 1.7 mfgm 82.2 mm - 2.8 p  0.0001 ileum mm antibiotic 55.9 mm - 2.4 mfgm 71.8 mm - 2.8p 0.0001 colon mm antibiotic 170.2 mm- 4.1 mfgm 190.2 mm- 4.6 p 0.003 n 5 student's t-test.we next examined epithelial cell proliferation by again immunostaining intestinal tissues for ki-67.

unfortunately there are few models forfigure 7. intestinal development is partially dependent on the presence of intestinal microbes in mm raised pups.

by utilizing the pup-in-a-cup model we showed that although ctl formula led to impaired intestinal development as compared to mm fed pups the addition of mfgm to formula beneficially aligned intestinal readouts to levels similar to those observed with mm.

as breast milk has been associated with not only early protection from infection and diarrhea but also with long lasting protection against allergies asthma and other immune mediated diseases it is of significant interest to clarify whether mfgm supplemented formula will also have the ability to confer these longlasting effects.to examine the role of intestinal microbes in intestinal development an antibiotic cocktail was used to deplete gut bacteria.

from these results we suggest that mfgm supplementation in formula has many beneficial effects on intestinal development and promotes protection against noxious intestinal stimuli.

infect immun 82 3753-3763 doi 10.1128iai.02045-14 2014.arrieta m. c. stiemsma l. t. amenyogbe n. brown e. m.  finlay b. the intestinal microbiome in early life health and disease.front immunol 5 427 doi 10.3389fimmu.2014.00427 2014.bullen c. l. tearle p. v.  willis a. t. bifidobacteria in the intestinal tract of infants an in-vivo study.

openreceived 16 september 2016accepted 23 february 2017published 28 march 2017milk fat globule membrane supplementation in formula modulates the neonatal gut microbiome and normalizes intestinal developmentganive bhinder1 joannie m. allaire1 cyrielle garcia2 jennifer t. lau3 justin m. chan1 natasha r. ryz1 else s. bosman1 franziska a. graef1 shauna m. crowley1larissa s. celiberto1 julia c. berkmann1 roger a. dyer2 kevan jacobson1 michael g. surette4 sheila m. innis2  bruce a. vallance1breast milk has many beneficial properties and unusual characteristics including a unique fat component termed milk fat globule membrane mfgm.

