at the time of enrollment dry off there were no differences p  0.47 in somatic cell count scores between cows assigned to receive antibiotic ceftiofur hydrochloride with teat sealant ats score 2.6 n 36 cows and cows receiving the teat sealant alone ts score 2.5 n 36 cows.

however the effects of using dry cow therapy with teat sealant alone or with antibiotics on milk microbiome and bacterial load have not been investigated.therefore the aims of this study were to compare the effects of dry cow therapy with and without antimicro- bial on milk microbiome and bacterial load in cows diagnosed as negative for mastitis at dry off.resultsdescriptive evaluation of mastitis incidence somatic cell count and bacterial culture.

the absence of shift in milk microbiome may indicate that microbial communities are dynamic and an antimicrobial induced dis- turbance of the milk microflora could be reversed by the time that cows started a new lactation i.e.

the only difference found in our beta diversity were the effects of time in our analysis of similarities suggesting that stage of lactation might a more important factor influencing milk microbiome composition than the use of antibiotics at dry off.conclusionuse of dry cow therapy based on a standalone teat sealant without mastitis resulted in a similar incidence of mastitis somatic cell count bacterial culture bacterial load and milk microbiome than cows assigned to receive teat sealant with antibiotic.

dry cow therapy based on teat sealant without antibiotics can be used with no detrimental impacts on milk microbiome and bacterial load in cows with a healthy mammary gland.mastitis is the most prevalent disease and the primary cause of economic losses in dairy cows.

in the present study only healthy cows were used thus the results in milk microbiome shift could have been different if cows with mastitis were also included.

openreceived 2 february 2017accepted 19 july 2017 published xx xx xxxxmilk microbiome and bacterial load following dry cow therapy without antibiotics in dairy cows with healthy mammary glanderika c. r. bonsaglia12 marilia s. gomes1 igor f. canisso1 ziyao zhou1 svetlana f. lima3 vera l. m. rall2 georgios oikonomou4 rodrigo c. bicalho3  fabio s. lima1preventive infusion of antibiotics in the mammary gland of cows consumes 11 tonsyear of medically relevant antimicrobials yet this practice might not be critical to prevent new infections in the healthy mammary gland of cows.

the major losses caused by mastitis include reduced milk production discarded milk premature culling reduced conception rates and cost with therapy-.new bacterial infections occur more often during the dry-off period than in any other time points during the lactation.

firmicutes denotes an important bacterial group for the milk microbiota  but its specific role of milk microbiome remains to be determined.

additionally a 2 ml milk aliquot of was stored at -80 degc until further dna extraction for determina- tion of the cow's milk microbiome.dna extraction dna amplification and sequencing of bacterial 16s rrna gene.

a recent study evaluated the effects of mastitis treatment with a third-generation cephalosporin ceftiofur hydrochloride in the milk microbiome of dairy cows diagnosed with mastitis.

the findings of the study revealed that milk microbiome cure rates and bacterial load did not shift with the treatment of mastitis suggesting that microbial infections in the mammary gland might not necessarily benefit from antimicrobial use.investigation of dry cow therapy without antibiotics effects on mammary gland pathogens and its co-inhabitant microbes are necessary to elucidate mastitis pathogenesis amr and the feasibility of implement- ing programs to reduce antimicrobial use in dairy cows.

studies have been carried out to characterize the milk microbiome of dairy cows with healthy mammary gland and mastitis-  .

error bars correspond to standard error of the mean.figure 2. bar graph illustrating the bacterial load measured as mean log10 number of the 16s rrna gene identified in milk samples of cows enrolled either on with antibiotic ceftiofur hydrochloride and teat sealant ats or just teat sealant ts at dry off and 7 days postpartum.

our findings suggest that cows screened negative for mastitis at the dry off can be managed with teat sealant alone without detrimental effects on milk microbiome and bacterial load at first week postpartum.

