asian aust j anim 201438caporaso jg kuczynski j stombaugh j bittinger k bushman fd costello ek fierer n pena ag goodrich jk gordon ji huttley ga kelley st knights d koenig je ley re lozu- pone ca mcdonald d muegge bd pirrung m reeder j sevinsky jr turnbaugh pj walters wa widmann j yat- sunenko t zaneveld j knight r 2010 qiime allows analysis of high-throughput community sequencing data.

these results indicated that the majority of bacterial phylotypes present in mink fecal samples were captured during sequencing  ensuring broad coverage of the data for further analyses.taxonomic profiling of bacterial communitiesthe phylogenetic classification of bacterial sequences from mink fecal samples is summarized in fig.

j nutr 1282676s-2677sharo c rangel-zu'niga oa alcala'-d'iaz jf go'mez-delgado f pe'rez-mart'inez p delgado-lista j quintana-navarro gm landa bb navas-corte's ja tena-sempere m clemente jc lo'pez-miranda j pe'rez-jime'nez f camargo a 2016 intestinal microbiota is influenced by gender and body mass index.

2 the phylogenetic classification of bacterial sequences for minkeffects of the host's gender and supplement with chinese herb additives.comparing microorganism abundance between 18 male and 18 female minks with the same diet indicated that four bacterial genera had c2-fold change.

doigong j si w forster rj huang r yu h yin y yang c han y 2007 16s rrna gene-based analysis of mucosa-associated bacterial community and phylogeny in the chicken gastroin- testinal tracts from crops to ceca.

br j nutr 94684-690mydland lt froyland jr skrede a 2008 composition of individual nucleobases in diets containing different products from bacterial biomass grown on natural gas and digestibility in mink mustela vison.

nature 457480-484. doiyatsunenko t rey fe manary mj trehan i dominguez-bello mg contreras m magris m hidalgo g baldassano rn ano- khin ap heath ac warner b reeder j kuczynski j caporaso jg lozupone ca lauber c clemente jc knights d knight r gordon ji 2012 human gut microbiome viewed across age and geography.

j anim physiol anim nutr berl 921-8. doigugolek a zalewski d strychalski j konstantynowicz m 2013 food transit time nutrient digestibility and nitrogen retention in farmed and feral american mink neovison vison--a comparative analysis.

nat methods 7335-336. doiquast c pruesse e yilmaz p gerken j schweer t yarza p peplies j glockner fo 2013 the silva ribosomal rna gene database project improved data processing and web-based tools.

there were 526 otus principally concentrated among five bacterial phyla.

almost all the bacterial species in gut microbiota can be quantified through 16s rrnasequencing which has made this method into the main- stream -.minks a kind of furbearing animals are commercially farmed to make colorful mink coats jackets and capes.

previously studies reported that shorter transit times appeared variable between males and females  and bacterial findings were affected by the age and feed of the animals  .

the bacterial composition of male mink was dominated by the phylum firmicutes proteobacteria and fusobacteria.

megan was used for global view of bacterial communities .statistical analysisthe spss 19.0 software was used for statistical analyses.

the estimation of good's coverage  indicated that 99.65 - 0.02 mean - s- tandard error s.e of the total bacterial species were represented in any given sample.

