rarefaction curves normalized to 2371 reads per sample levelled off at 70 to 180 otus for most samples.in situ bacterial community composition at iceberg and control stationscommunity richness chao1 in situ was higher at the control station especially in the deep water compared with the iceberg station deep water richness 520 and 303 for the control and iceberg station respectively sup- porting information table s1.

the goal of this research was to study if hydrographic perturbations caused by a drifting iceberg could locally enhance bacterioplankton production and change bacterial community composition while also altering the bacterial capacity to use specific dissolved organic compounds for growth.resultsthe effects of a drifting iceberg on the hydrography were assessed by measurements from several stations in its wake randall-goodwin et al.

the studied iceberg 113.78w 73.78s was a free-floating and quasi-tabular iceberg 3 31 km with an estimated keel depth of 340 - 450 m. the height 37-50 m was measured by sextant and used to calculate the iceberg depth using isostatic principles.

moreover at these two stations one-week bottle incubations examined the ability of the bacterioplankton to utilize carbon substrates and short term incubations examined actively growing cells within key bacterial groups.in situ conditions in the vicinity and wake of the icebergthe iceberg station s57.26 and other iceberg-influenced stations s57.02 and s57.11 were located in an area down- stream and closest to the studied iceberg see randall- goodwin et al.

2000. nevertheless the high proportions of brdu1 polaribacter cells also in the short-term incubations sug- gest that at least polaribacter was an active component of the bacterial community at the iceberg station especially at depth.otus related to polaribacter showed station-specific responses and were in the iceberg deep water stimulated exclusively by nag.

2016. never- theless the bacterial production per cell at the iceberg station was twofold higher at the dcm and 50-fold higher for the deeper waters table 1.substrate utilization experiments bacterial abundance and productionbacterial abundance and production increased in all treat- ments after an initial lag phase of 96 h fig.

this implies that the increased frequency of icebergs in the southern ocean caused by progressive global warming may have large consequences for bacterial carbon and nutrient cycling and thereby for the overall carbon sequestration in the region.icebergs hot-spots for bacterial productivitythe drifting iceberg we studied generated deep mixing of the water column.

2011.iceberg disturbance of the water column affected the capacity of the bacterial assemblages to utilize carbon substrateswe performed enrichment experiments with carbon sub- strates to examine whether the presence of the iceberg affected the bacterial carbon utilization potential.

for bacterial abundance samples were taken at the start after 48 h 96 h and at the end of the incubation 168 h. for bacterial produc- tion samples were taken at the start after 48 h at the end of the incubation also at 96 h for the iceberg station and assays were performed onboard.

2015 enhances bacterial pro- duction changes bacterial community composition and affects the ability of the bacterial assemblage to utilize dis- solved organic carbon.

nuts nutrients dcm deep chlorophyll maximum.diversity index was highest in the deep water from the ice- berg station deep water diversity 4.4 and 5.14 for the control and iceberg station respectively.beta diversity analyses based on weighted unifrac dis- tances showed that in situ communities inocula from the control dcm and deep waters and iceberg dcm water clustered together in the dendrograms fig.

while all treatments from the control dcm control deep and iceberg dcm waters continued to be dominated by the initially high percentages 77 6 17 of bacteroi- detes mainly polaribacter treatments from the iceberg deep waters shifted from their initial composition to be dominated by c-proteobacteria 91 6 7 mainly colwellia- ceae fig.

a higher number of archaea 1 77 6 23 was observed in the iceberg deep waters com- pared with the control and iceberg dcm waters but the deep archaea did not seem to incorporate brdu.

sup05 clade hybridized cells were most abundant in the control dcm waters 1 96 but the frac- tion of brdu1 cells was highest at the iceberg dcm 1 76. hence there was no strong coupling between abun- dance and growth at least not for the most abundant populations.discussionclimate change impacts on high-latitude marine ecosys- tems may result in increased massive ice-shelf and glacial calving events and iceberg production.

the hydrographical perturbations generated by the iceberg were studied through multiple ctd conductivity temperature depth profiles all around the iceberg over a period of 2.5 d both downstream and upstream of the drift trajectory randall-goodwin et al.

