with development and application of high throughput 16 s rrna gene sequencing it may help to explain the underlying mechanism on comprehensive variation of intestinal bacteria caused by various concentrations of dietary protein.in the present study the finishing pigs were selected as the experimental model and the effects of reducing dietary protein level by different percentage on the gut health from perspective of gut microbiota intestinal bar- rier function and proliferation of intestinal stem cells were investigated.

effects of low-protein diets on expression of intestinal tight junction proteins and biomarkers of intestinal stem cells were shown in 4. expression of ileal claudin-1 in 13 cp group was significantly higher than 16 cp and 10 cp group p  0.01 and reducing the dietary protein concentration by 3 percent from 16 increased the expression of occludin p  0.04. however decreasing dietary protein concentration had no significant influence on expres- sion of colonic tight junction proteins.

the moderate dietary protein restriction 13 cp may be preferred by pork industry which introduces a new strategy to improve the health of animal gut health because it did not damage the intestinal morphology and could improve the epithelial barrier function and develop a healthier pattern of ileal bacterial community.conclusionsin conclusion moderate reduction of dietary protein concentration 13 cp could improve the bacte- rial community structure in both ileum and colon of finishing pigs especially increase the proportion of peptostreptococcaceae and enhance the ileal barrier function.

and as reported peptostreptococcaceae is usually considered as normal commensal bacteria and its proportion is higher in gut microbiota of health animals than those patients with dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiota indicating peptostreptococcaceae helps maintain the gut homeostasis.in consistent with healthier pattern of ileal bacterial community in 13 cp group ileal expression of two important intestinal tight junction proteins occludin and claudin-1 were both up regulated when the dietary protein concentration decreased by 3 percent.

compared to 16 and 13 cp dietary treatments ileal tissue in 10 cp dietary treatment showed shorter villus height p  0.04 and deeper crypt depth p  0.03 3c.table 3. effects of low protein diets on scfas concentration in intestinal contents of finishing pigs1.

when dietary protein concentration reduced by 3 per- cent concentration of all the 5 biogenic amines in ileal content and putrescine histamine and spermidine in colonic content were significantly decreased p  0.05 4 but when the concentration of dietary protein reduced to 10 only concentration of ileal histamine and colonic methylamine continued to decrease signifi- cantly p  0.05.intestinal morphology.

meanwhile shannon index of bacterial community in either ileal or colon was barely affected by reduction of protein concentration e. however within-group difference of shannon index in 13 cp group was smaller than the other two groups.the otu community comparisons by hierarchical clustering showed that samples from ileal and colon clus- tered and most of ileal samples in 16 cp dietary treatment were separated from of those in 10 cp group but colonic samples did not cluster clearly according to the protein concentration .

the concentration of acetate and valerate in ileal content decreased significantly when dietary protein concentration decreased from 16 to 13 and 10 p  0.01 3 but concentration of propionate butyrate and isovalerate in ileal did not differ among 3 groups and isobutyrate was not detected in the ileal content.

pig fed diets included normal dietary protein concentration group 16 low dietary protein concentration group 13 and extremely low dietary protein concentration group 10 respectively.

as for colonic content when dietary protein concentration decreased from 16 to 13 concentration of acetate propionate and isobutyrate declined significantly p  0.01 and when dietary protein concentration continued to decrease at 10 concentration of butyrate and isovalerate also dropped down p  0.01. but no significant difference in concentration of colonic valerate was observed among 3 groups.concentration of intestinal biogenic amines.

openreceived 04 august 2016accepted 23 january 2017published 02 march 2017moderate dietary protein restriction alters the composition of gut microbiota and improves ileal barrier function in adult pig modelpeixin fan1 ping liu1 peixia song1 xiyue chen1  xi ma12this study was conducted to investigate impacts of dietary protein levels on gut bacterial community and gut barrier.

their respective proportion did not significantly alter with reduction of dietary protein concentration.at family level firmicutes in colon were mainly composed of clostridiaceae1 ruminococcaceae lachnospiraceae lactobacillaceae christensenellaceae erysipelotrichaceae and streptococcaceae .figure 1. alpha-diversity and similarity of ileal and colonic bacterial community of finishing pigs fed different concentrations of dietary protein.

the influence of different dietary cp levels on the intestinal bacterial com- munities have been widely studied in weaned piglets however the balance of intestinal microbiota has not been well established yet.

the 10 cp dietary treatment damaged ileal mucosal morphology and decreased the expression of biomarks of intestinal cells lgr5 and bmi1 whereas the expression of tight junction proteins occludin and claudin in 13 cp group were higher than the other two groups.

when dietary cp concentration drop by 3 to 6 percent ileal bacterial richness tended to decrease sug- gesting that the protein deficiency may inhibit the growth of intestinal bacteria.

