lancl2 was first recognized as a mammalian receptor for abscisic acid aba downstream effects of lancl2 and aba have shown broad anti-inflammatory and metabolic activ- ity including modulation of calcium-dependent glucose transport and akt pathways as well as the downregulation of inflammatory markers recently a novel class of bis-benzimidazolyl- terephthalanilides btts has been discovered to bind to lancl2 and promote beneficial effects in the context of inflammatory bowel disease the properties of which have been optimizedand assessed for toxicity as a result we seek to assess the ability of nsc61610 a btt to reduce cdad as an alternative to antibiotic therapy.however the need to co-administer standard of care antibiotics in addition to alternative therapeutics designed to in part promote commensal preservation in clinical trial settings may lessen their impact additionally while important for the understanding of disease progression and pathologies the ability of animal models to independently predict the effectiveness of c. difficile treatments is questionable notably in animal trials of anti-toxin antibodies the majority of the effectiveness was shown to be through anti- toxin a antibodies the anti-toxin b antibodies were thought to have little to no independent effect.

difficile infection increases disease severity and colonic inflammationto assess the validity of lancl2 as an important molecule in the immune response to c. difficile we infected both wild-type mice and mice deficient in lancl2 lancl2--.

comparison between lancl2 single parameter knockouts antibiotics and fecal microbiome transplantation d.experimental validation lancl2 ligand nsc61610 administration lessens clinical signs of disease and cellular markers of inflammationto determining the viability of lancl2 activation and sub- sequent immunoregulation as a c. difficile therapeutic option c57bl6 wild type mice were infected with c. difficile strainvpi10463 and a subset of infected mice was given 20 mgkg nsc61610 by gavage daily.

potentially the highly efficacious combination of antibodies and fmt antibodies and lancl2 activation or lancl2 activation and fmt could be an ideal option for high risk patients in need of greater treatment potency.model simulation analysis of dosage and impaired efficacy on predicted clinical outcomesto assess dosage dependencies and the effects of treatment on patients who may experience reduced benefits we simulated the computational pipeline at scaled efficiencies for each treatment.

the effect of fecal microbiome transplantation was largely reliant on the ability to influence commensal regrowth while an inability to induce tolerogenic dendritic cells created more varia- tion in response to treatment b. single parameter knockouts within lancl2 treatment resulted in two noticeable shifts c. the first was the loss of an effect on commensal regrowth which varied along component 2. the second shift could occur through loss of either tolerogenic dendritic cell production or t cell plastic- ity and resulted in a shift along component 3. notably the second shift closely associated with antibiotic treatment when compared while control lancl2 treatment associated with fecal microbiome transplantation d.the single parameter effects were confirmed by directly exam- ining the duration mortality and recurrence scores for each parameter knockout.

the non- responders to lancl2 treatment had on average a 50 lower treg to th17 ratio compared to responders e. a smaller but simi- lar trend was observed within the quantity of commensal bacteria d however no trend was observable in c. difficile clearance between lancl2 responders and non-responders f. sensi- tivity analysis of the full set of t cell parameters displays potent effects of th17 migration th17treg plasticity and treg death on epithelial death c. difficile burden the regrowth of commensal bac- teria and neutrophil activation g-j.

the loss of lancl2 accel- erated weight loss compared to wild type mice early in infection with significant differences appearing at days 2 and 3 post-infection a. meanwhile persistent increases in disease activity index were observed throughout the time course b while little to no differences in re-isolation of c. difficile were observed until day 8 post-infection c. in agreement with disease activity scores higher percentages of neutrophils and th17 cells were observed in the colons of infected lancl2-- mice compared to infected wt d-e.fig.

based on this assessment the four treatments clustered in clear microbial effect antibiotics and fmt and host effect antibodies and lancl2 treatments or as activation fmt and lancl2 and inhibition antibiotics and antibodies dominant effects.

as a use case we compare the efficacy of lanthionine synthetase c-like 2 lancl2 a novel immunoregulatory target with promising efficacy in inflammatory bowel disease ibd activation with antibiotics fecal microbiome transplantation and anti-toxin antibodies in the treatment of cdad.

we further validate the potential of lancl2 pathway activation in a mouse model of c. difficile infection in which it displays an ability to decrease weight loss and inflammatory cell types while protecting against mortality.

difficile burden recent advances in cdi treatment led to the development of alternative strategies that modulate the com- mensal microbiome such as fecal microbiome transplantation or administration of non-toxigenic c. difficile or directly influence the capability of c. difficile to induce inflammation such as anti-toxin a and b antibodies the success of these alternative treatments suggests that development of therapeutics with similar effect pro- files such as those targeting the activation of immunoregulatory pathways may find similar efficacy.among the immunoregulatory pathways that may offer promise in the treatment of enteric pathogens like c. difficile is the lancl2 0933-3657c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.pathway.

further we use the model to predict the effectiveness of a novel immune-based c. difficile treatment lancl2 activation to induce immunoregulation and validate the predictions in an animal model of the disease.

from this simulation large effects were observed on immune activation for the antibody lancl2 and fecal microbiome trans- plantation fmt treatments compared to antibiotic treatment.

the change in simulated neutrophil influx is shown as a representative quantity of immune activation effects a-d. as expected fmt treatment was predicted to have the largest effect on commen- sal bacteria regrowth while lancl2 activation displayed lesser but similar beneficial effects e-h. anti-toxin antibody treatment did not display major differences compared to standard antibiotic treatment.

treatment-calibrated models for antibiotics fecal microbiome transplantation fmt anti-toxin antibodies and lancl2 activation was stochastically simulated with 50 replicates on condor copasi.

