for pa sediments the differ- ence in ssu rrna sequences within the two datasets was only approximately 10 although the proportion in the enriched ssu rrna-derived dataset pa-ssu was significantly increased compared with that observed in the dataset derived from total na pa-total fish- er's exact test p  0.001. in addition no significant difference was observed for the fraction of lsu rrna sequences between the two datasets fisher's exact test p  0.05. the propor- tion of eukaryota in ssu rrna reads of pa-ssu 4.2 was significantly decreased compared with that in pa-total 26.0 fisher's exact test p  0.001 which may be attributed to the loss of some long sequences related to eukaryotic 18s rrna during gel-purification of ssu rrna.position distribution of 16s rrna and non-coverage evaluation of the 8f primerthe 16s rrna sequences longer than 250 bp were selected from the mock community datasets to analyze position distributions .

additional reasons for the limited application of this method include the requirement for high qualities of rna  and the difficulty of performing alpha- and beta-diversity analyses due to differences in the regions covered by the sequences although we already used v3 region covered sequences 32-36 of the reverse-transcribed ssu rrna sequences in a previous study .in this study a modified method is presented to construct a transcriptome library using a low quantity of rna that is suitable for ssu rrna sequencing and analysis.

assembled sequences with ambiguous nucleotides and homopolymer lengths longer than eight nucleotides were removed in mothur v1.33.3 .for taxonomic annotation of mock communities a silva-formatted ssu rrna reference database was constructed based on nearly complete ssu rrna sequences of the five isolates genbank accession numbers cp015004 dq336714 cp014092 m11583 and fr839631.silva-formatted lsu rrna large subunit rrna reference database was constructed withthe same method by using the complete lsu rrna sequences genbank accession numbers cp009749 aufk01000006 ae014075 x03407 and fn392325.

contents of different sequence types within rna-seq datasets of environmental samples.a rna-seq dataset of salt-marsh sediments vegetated by phragmites australis for which total nucleic acid was used for library preparation.b rna-seq dataset of salt-marsh sediments vegetated by phragmites australis for which only enriched ssu rrna was used for library preparation.c unassigned sequences and sequences belonging to chloroplasts mitochondria or human.most of the classified sequences 74.9-96.4 in mock communities belonged to ssu rrna of the five isolates .

further analysis confirmed the percentages of bacterial 16s rrna sequences in otu-related community analysis ranging from 44.5- 59.8 .more than half of the bacterial 16s rrna sequences in each dataset were observed to con- tain the complete 8f primer region and non-coverage rates of the primer were evaluated at different taxonomic levels by using all these ssu rrna sequences .

diversity index values were calculated using randomly selected sequences for archaea 500 sequences were randomly selected for bacteria 5000 sequences were randomly selected.

for high-biomass salt-marsh sediments enriched ssu rrna and total nucleic acid-derived rna-seq datasets revealed highly consistent community compositions for all of the ssu rrna sequences and as much as 46.4-59.5 of 16s rrna sequences were suitable for otu operational taxo- nomic unit-based community and diversity analyses with complete coverage of v1-v2 regions.

more than half of the bacterial 16s rrna sequences covered the complete region of primer 8f and non-coverage rates as high as 38.7 were obtained for phylum-unclassified sequences providing many opportunities to identify novel bacterial taxa.

taxonomic annotations were determined using the 'classify.seqs' command in mothur v1.33.3 with a bootstrap cut-off of 80 as previously proposed .to correctly assign all ssu rrna reads within the rna-seq datasets of the environmental samples sequences longer than 250 bp were classified against the silva ssuref v119 database in mipe  with a bootstrap cut-off of 80 and sequences that were identified as chloroplast mitochondria or human were removed.

sequences that fell below a cut-off threshold of less than 80 for the ssu and lsu rrna annotations or which had an alignment score lower than 10 were considered to be non-rrna sequences and were aligned to the ncbi non-redundant protein database released on november 26 2015 using blastx with an e value of 10-5 to identify mrna transcripts.

the x-axis indicates the read length of the ssu rrna sequences and the y- axis indicates the percentages of the ssu rrna sequences obtained for the five isolates.the initial rna denaturation process.

however a small fraction of lsu rrna sequences still remained in these enriched ssu rrna-derived datasets accounting for 2.6 to 12.5 of the total sequences in these groups .

for rna-seq datasets of environmental samples more than 80 of the sequences were rrna sequences .

how- ever for the phylum-unclassified sequences mismatch rates of up to 38.7 were observed leaf surfaces dataset much higher than that of other phyla  .community structures and diversity analysis for environmental samplesboth pa sediment samples and some low-biomass samples from diverse environments such as tap water shower curtain leaf surfaces mudflat surface water and the skin of human fore- heads were utilized for analysis of community structures with the modified rna-seq method described in this study.community structures of pa sediments were initially characterized using all ssu rrna sequences from the pa-total and pa-ssu datasets.

the microbial communities were very similar to each other even at genus level slopes of the regression equations were 0.89 to 1.03 r2  0.76 although all ssu rrna sequences had very different community proportions between the pa-total and pa-ssu at the domain level notably for eukaryota 26.0 vs. 4.2. in addition a good correlation was also observed in their eukaryotic communities r2  0.93. otu-based prokaryotic structures were also described for the two datasets using only the 8f-v1-v2 containing 16s rrna sequences.

