quantitative rt-pcr assessment of pixr transcript levels in a unfed clean uf clean gut and unfed b. burgdorferi-infected uf bb gut gut fed salivary glands from clean fed clean sg and b. burgdorferi-infected nymphs salivary glands fed bb sg fed guts of clean fed clean guts and borrelia-infected fed bb gut nymphs.

tem visualization of the gut of clean nymphs fed on b. burgdorferi- infected mice consistent with qrt-pcr assessment showed decreased b. burgdorferi burden in the gut lumen of nymphs that fed on pixr-immunized mice compared to that in the guts of nymphs that fed on ovalbumin-immunized mice fig.

guts of nymphal ticks fed for 48 h on ovalbumin-immunized ovalbumin or rpixr-immunized pixr mice assessed by transmission electron microscopy tem a pictorial depiction of the gut section lumen l epithelium e b. burgdorferi bb gut microbiota m and villi v. arrows indicate b. burgdorferi that have breached the pm and are lying against the epithelial cells.

to assess and compare pixr expression in larval and nymphal guts in presence and absence of b. burgdorferiequal amounts 2 mg of protein extracted from fed nymphal midgut gut pools of 5-6 fed larval ticks pools of 2-3 unfed clean or b. burgdorferi-infected nymphal guts and pools of 30-40 unfed larval ticks were each electrophoresed on a sds 12 polyacrylamide gel and transferred to nitrocellulose membranes and probed with anti-pixr or anti-salp25d antibodies and bound antibodies detected asdescribed above.

b. burgdorferi burdens in tick guts and salivary glands of ticks that fed on pixr- immunized mice was also comparable to that in nymphs fed on ovalbumin-immunized mice supplementary fig.

scale bar 50 mm and regions similar to the boxed area is shown at a magnificationx5000 in e. the inside of the gut showing sparse biofilms-like structures bf in ticks fed on ovalbumin-immunized mice anti-ova or in ds gfp-injected guts ds gfp compared to the dense and matte-like biofilm in ticks fed on rpixr-immunized mice anti-pixr or ds pixr rna-injected guts ds pixr.

periodic acid schiff's stain of nymphal tick guts to visualize the pm-like layer showed increased thick- ness in ticks that fed on pixr-immunized mice compared to ticks that fed on control mice supplementary fig.

further while the expression levels of peritrophin-1 and peritro- phin-4 components of the pm-like layer in larval ticks were not altered expressions of peritrophin-3 and peritrophin-5 were decreased in larval ticks that fed on pixr-immunized mice when compared to that in ticks fed on ovalbumin-immunized mice supplementary fig.

however the expression levels of genes such as bba15 encoding for ospa a lipoprotein critical for b. burgdorferi colonization of the tick gut bba74 encoding an outer mem- brane associated protein expressed exclusively in the tick stage and rpos that encodes for the alternative sigma factor rpos-a key regulator of virulence gene expression were comparable between larvae that fed on ova-immunized or pixr-immunized mice fig.

consistent with the qrt-pcr data pixr pixr2 protein levels were comparable in larvae that fed on uninfected mice or b. burgdorferi-infected mice and increased 1.5-fold in b. burgdorferi-infected nymphal gut when compared to that in uninfected nymphal guts.

nuclei were stained with 46-diamidino-2-phenylindole dapi in prolong gold antifade mountingreagent invitrogen and stained guts visualized under a leica sp5 fluorescence confocal microscope leica microsystems at 40x magnification.to detect s. aureus pnag in tick guts overnight planktonically grown s. aureus was suspended in pbs 2 x 107 ml-1 and 5 nl injectednymphal tick and ticks allowed to feed on pixr or ovalbumin-immunized mice for 48 h and processed forimmunofluorescence microscopy to detect pnag as described above.assessment of the metabolome composition of the tick gut.

a heat map showing alterations in the profile of differentially represented gut metabolites between ticks fed on pixr-immunized pixr 1 and 2-each sample representing a pool of 10 tick guts or ovalbumin-immunized mice controls 1 and 2 each-sample representing a pool of 10 tick guts in the positive and negative mode.

b c. the peritrophic matrix-like layer pm that straddles the gut epithe- lium and the gut lumen appeared dense in nymphs that fed on ovalbumin-immunized mice when compared to diffuse pm in the guts of nymphs fed on pixr-immunized mice fig.

c3hhen mice were immunized with rpixr or with ovalbumin and infected with b. burgdorferi n40 and immunized mice were challenged with nymphal ticks and ticks fed to repletion.

biofilm-like structures in pixr-abrogated ticks fed on buffer-injected mice buffer are decreased in ticks fed on gentamicin-injected mice gentamicin scale bar 5 mm.

