in this way the effects of vitamin d glatiramer acetate and other treatments on gut microbiota can be assessed and it will be possible to determine whether a causal relationship exists between microbiota of ms patients and their immune response in relation to disease progression.we also propose to collect mucosa biopsies to investigate the contribution of mucosa-associated bacterial species in ms. thus far all studies on gut microbiota in ms patients used fecal samples which focus on luminal microbiota.

it is also not clear whether the dysbiosis in scfa-producing bacteria f. prausnitzii methanobrevibacter and enterobacteriaceae adds to the pathology of ms or if it is a result of ms pathology or treatments.prospective microbiota studies in ms patientstwo relatively small studies have tried to link gut microbiota to clinical outcomesorchangesintheimmunesystemof mspatients.ina cohortof 17 pediatric ms patients the absence of fusobacteria wasassociatedwithincreasedriskonearlierrelapses.

even though only one study found a dif- ference in the abundance of b. fragilis  the beneficial effect of psa on eae may be translatable to corresponding human diseases such as ms.table 3  gut microbiota studies in ms patients.ascfa producer.blikely pro-inflammatory.cpsa producer.dmam producer.mam microbial anti-inflammatory molecule ms multiple sclerosis psa polysaccharide a rr relapsing remitting scfa short-chain fatty acids.taken together the gut microbiota composition of ms patients and healthy individuals likely differs as reflected by a different abundance of scfa producing bacteria f. prausnitzii methanobrevibacter and enterobacteriaceae see .

thepresence of a tlrnlr ligand in the brain possibly originat-ing from gut microbiota may contribute to ms pathology by influencing inflammation demyelination or remyelination and therefore more research is needed to elucidate the role of microbial compounds in ms brains.dietary studies in ms patientshow different food components may affect ms has been reviewed comprehensively by schmitz et al.

moreover as fecal samples more closely reflect microbiota composition of the colon than of the small intestines differences in microbiota composition of the small intestines are undetected .potential role of pgn in msanother way in which gut microbiota may influence ms is through pgn a bacterial cell wall component.

preliminary data suggest that both glatiramer acetate treatment and vitamin d supplementation affect gut microbiota see .the aforementioned microbiota studies in ms patients are pos- sibly biased as fecalstool samples were used for characterization of gut microbiota.

healthy individuals and patients were treatedwith propionic acid which increased treg frequency and reduced th17 frequency in both groups without any side effects only an abstract of this study is available .methods to manipulate gut microbiota for therapeutic purposescurrent evidence suggests that ms patients may have a different gut microbiota composition compared to healthy individuals and that gut microbiota may affect the relapse rate see .

the gutmicrobiota of ms patients may be restored with fecal microbiota transplanta- tion to resemble the gut microbiota of healthy individuals.an alternative for restoration of the gut microbiota of patients is treatment with bacterial products or dietary components that may dampen immune responses such as purified psa or scfa.

aryl hydrocar- bon receptor ligands may also act on type 3 ilc .gut microbiota in ms patientscomparing the gut microbiota of ms patients with healthy controlscolonization with bacteria and oral treatment with bacterial products and diet are all exogenous factors via which the clinical andorpathological expressionof eae canbe modified.

the efficacy of vitamin d supplementation and reduced salt intake will also need to be tested in large randomized controlled trials.in conclusion gut microbiota and dietary interventions are promising treatments for ms but there are still many questions that need to be investigated before we can conclude which bac- terial species and which dietary components play a role in ms pathogenesis and before it will be possible to selectively target detrimental species as a treatment in ms patients.author contributionsall the authors developed tables boxes and figures.

preclinical as well as clinical studies suggest a role for gut microbiota and dietary components in ms. here we review these recent studies on gut microbiota and dietary interventions in ms and its animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.

since the gut microbiota are greatly impacted by diet studies have also started to assess the contri- bution of gut microbiota and diet in ms and animal models of autoimmune demyelinating diseases such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis eae.

of these studies eight have investigated whether differences exist in the microbiota composition of ms patients compared to healthy individuals for which collectively almost 250 ms samples were tested.

differences in the gut microbiota of pediatric ms patients compared to adult ms patients may exist.

multiple dietary intervention studies have been done in ms patients but most were unsuccessful in reducing ms severity and have notexamined the effects on microbiota.

