altogether these results demonstrated the dose-dependent effect and safety of krill oil in mitigating hshf diet induced weight gain and hyperlipidemia symptoms.the hshf diet and krill oil treatment lead to changes in the gut microbiota structureto elucidate the contributions of the krill oil treatment to the gut microbiota we collected fecal samples from 72 mice after 12 weeks of treatment and performed a high-throughput sequencing analysis of the v3 and v4 hypervariable regions of the bacterial 16s rrna gene.

after 12 weeks on hshfdiet widespread changes in the structure of the gut microbiota were observed at the phylum level compared with that in the control group with significant decreased proportions ofcyanobacteria p  0.05 thaumarchaeota p  0.05 and significant increased proportions of firmicutes p  0.05. the low and moderate-dose krill oil treatment attenuated the changes in the gut microbiota structures whereas the high-dose treatment aggravated the changes in some phyla figure 4a table s4.

the otus with a decreased abundance after hshf diet treatment and a restored abundance after krill oil treatment are labeled in red and the otus with an increased abundance after hshf diet treatment and a restored abundance after krill oil treatment are labeled in green.

the effects on the obesity was not obvious after low and moderate dose krill oil treatment and a control-like gut microbiota structure with increased abundance of serratia delftia and streptococcus in the gut and decreased proportion of ralstonia were observed.

2017. thus identifying species-level phylotypes changes in response to treatment is important.in conclusion the results obtained in this study suggest that structural alterations in the gut microbiota induced by krill oil treatment are dose-dependent and associated with the alleviation of hyperlipidemia.

low- and moderate- doses of krill oil increased the similarity between the composition of the hshf diet-induced gut microbiota and that of the control whereas the mice fed the high-dose exhibited a unique gut microbiota structure that was different from that of the control and hshf groups.

whereas with the increase of krill oil concentration the effect on obesity was detected on increased body weight gain compared with the ld and md groups as well as the obesity-like gut microbiota structure with increased firmicutes and decreased gut microbial diversity.author contributionscl and xs designed the study.

to discern whether krill oil changes the structure of the gut microbiota during the hyperlipidemia treatment 72 mice were acclimatized with a standard chow diet for 2 weeks and then randomly allocated to receive a standard chow diet control group n  12 or a high-sugar-high-fat hshf diet supplemented with a low 100 uggd hshfld group n  12 moderate 200 uggd hshfmd group n  12 or high dosage of krill oil 600 uggd hshfhd group n  12 simvastatin hshfs group n  12 or saline hshf group n  12 continuously for 12 weeks.

a dose-dependent modulation of the gut microbiota was observed after treatment with krill oil.

in conclusion the results obtained in this study suggest that the structural alterations in the gut microbiota induced by krill oil treatment were dose-dependent and associated with the alleviation of hyperlipidemia.

additionally the high-dose krill oil treatment showed combined effects on the alleviation of hyperlipidemia and obesity.keywords krill oil hyperlipidemia gut microbiota dose-dependent mouseintroductionhumans face various metabolic diseases including obesity hyperlipidemia hyperglycemia and hypertension eckel et al.

therefore intervention strategies are needed for the treatment of hyperlipidemia.accumulating evidence suggests that a disrupted balance between the host and the gut microbiota plays a vital role in lipid metabolism and the development of hyperlipidemia ley et al.

2015. in conclusion the changes in the gut microbiota play an important role in the regulation of lipid metabolism and the alleviation of hyperlipidemia and may have potential as a new hyperlipidemia treatment strategy.krill oil is extracted from euphausia superb and contains eicosapentaenoic acid epa and docosahexaenoic acid dha maki et al.

the biochemical blood indices liver index and shift in the structure of the gut microbiota in response to krill oil treatment at different doses were examined in mice.

our results provide new insights into the roles of the gut microbiota following treatment with different dose of krill oil for hyperlipidemia.

