Since butyrate is the primary source of energy used in proliferating and differentiating colonic epithelial cells it plays a key role in preserving the intestinal immune system and the mucosal barrier Hill and Artis 2010.Recent studies have demonstrated in a rat model that butyrate pretreatment attenuates IRI by conserving epithelial structure and function Qiao et al.

Perfusion with butyrate and methoxyacetate did not eliminate the observed increased secretion which indicates that ischemic protection was mediated by microbial conversion of lactate to butyrate p  0.71.Conclusions Lactate's protective effect against intestinal ischemia due to microbial conversion to butyrate suggests possible applications in the transplant setting for reducing ischemic injury and ameliorating intestinal preservation during transport.Keywords intestinal ischemia intestinal transplantation ischemiareperfusion injuryINTRODUCTIONIschemia occurs when the blood supply to the small bowel is occluded and if ischemia is followed by reperfusion reoxygenation of the tissue occurs.

Bifidobacteria's production of lactate has been demonstrated to be converted into butyrate by Eubacterium hallii Duncan et al.

Six trials were conducted using 30-min pretreatment of 5 mM methoxyacetate inhibitor in order to interrupt the conversion of lactate into butyrate Yamazoe et al.

As reported in the literature butyrate diet supplementation in pigs stimulates villi elongation in both the ileum and the caecum crypts Yamazoe et al.

Butyrate is also very expensive for these reasons we decided to use a butyrate precursor namely lactate to attempt to reduce IRI.We hypothesized that the normal gut microbiome could locally protect against ischemia in the gut epithelium by metabolism of lactate to butyrate here we present novel data using an intestinal perfusion unit IPU as well as histopathology to confirm this hypothesis.MATERIALS AND METHODSBowel ProcurementMale Sprague-Dawley rats Charles River Wilmington MA weighing 235-480 g weight-matched within experimental sets were housed in climate and humidity- controlled light-cycled rooms.

With these novel findings the expense and difficulties of direct butyrate administration can be avoided while harnessing butyrate's significant beneficial effects through microbial conversion to reduce ischemic injury and ameliorate intestinal preservation.AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONSAB contributed to study conception and design data acquisition data interpretation statistical analysis manuscript drafting.

Perturbations to the intestinal microbiome or dysbiosis are correlated with numerous diseases including inflammatory bowel disease IBD Manichanh et al.

2006 diabetes Wen et al.

2008 allergy Penders et al.

