in addition taurocholic acid also significantly increased the primary bile acids cholic acid glycocholic acid chenodeoxycholic acid tau- rochenodeoxycholic acid and unconjugated muricholic acids as well as the secondary bile acids deoxycholic acidtaurodeoxycholic acid glycodeoxycholic acid ursodeoxy- cholic acid and -muricholic acid fig.

p  0.05 p  0.001.that gg enhanced bile acid absorption leading to higher bile acid levels in the plasma and elevated bile acid content in the liver which in turn triggered compensatory changes in the expression of genes involved in hepatic bile acid syn- thesis and uptake.to examine whether the elevated plasma levels of bile acids may contribute to hepatic inflammation and fibrosis we gave mice the bile acid taurocholic acid for 7 days by mixing it in their feed 0.5 ww.

specifically plasma levels of various primary bile acids including cholic acid taurocholic acid muricholic acids and tauromuricholic acids as well as the secondary bile acids deoxycholic acid taurodeoxycholic acid ursodeoxycholic acid hyodeoxycholic acid and tau- rohyodeoxycholic acid were significantly higher in the gg mice as compared with ctrl mice fig.

consistent with this hypothesis hepatic bile acid levels were found to be elevated in humans with steatohepatitis 51. furthermore nafld was found to be associated with intestinal dysbiosis and altered fecal bile acid levels in hu- man subjects 52.one type of bile acid that may be particularly involved inpromoting liver injury and nafld is deoxycholic acid lev- els of which were increased by 4.2-fold in the plasma of mice fed gg.

taken together gg suppressed bodyweight gain which wasaccompanied by decreased adipose tissue inflammation and improved glucose tolerance.modulation of the gut microbiota by gg is associated with reduced hepatic steatosis but enhanced hepatic inflammationin accordance with a lower fat mass in the gg mice hepatic lipid accumulation was significantly lower in mice fed gg as revealed by he and oil red o stainings and quantitation of liver triglycerides fig.

the mechanism by which bile acids may promote liver injury and hepatic inflammation and fi- brosis may involve enhanced leakage of tight junctions of bile duct epithelial cells causing cholangitis as well as the activation and proliferation of periductal myofibroblasts leading to periductal fibrosis 54. furthermore it is well- established that elevated intrahepatic bile acid levels trigger hepatocyte apoptosis possibly leading to nash 55-57. future studies should address the cellular mechanisms by which microbiota-dependent changes in portal and he- patic bile acids may influence nafld.the increase in liver bile acid content in the mice treatedwith antibiotics may be taken as evidence that bile acids cannot be responsible for the reduced liver injury inflam- mation and fibrosis in these mice.

liver fibrosis.modulation of the gut microbiota by gg is associated with altered levels of gut-derived metabolitesto explore the possible mechanisms linking changes in gut microbiota composition to the observed liver pathol- ogy we focused our attention on several microbial com- pounds that have been proposed to mediate the effects of the gut bacteria on host metabolism including the pro-in- flammatory lipopolysaccharide lps and ethanol and the anti-inflammatory scfas 44. plasma levels of lps were comparable between the gg mice and ctrl mice fig.

together these data demonstrate that although feeding gg suppressed diet-induced obesity it stimulatedspecific inflammatory cells and pathways in the liver whereas rs had no effect.modulation of the gut microbiota by gg is associated with enhanced hepatic fibrosisstrikingly further study revealed that the livers of the mice fed gg exhibited pronounced features of hepatic fi- brosis.

the 4-hydroxyproline content was determined spectrophotometrically in liver hydrolysates as described previously 33.for hepatic myeloperoxidase activity liver homogenates were prepared and myeloperoxidase peroxidase activity was measured according to manufacturer's instructions abcam.for the quantification of liver total bile acid content livers were homogenized in 75 ethanol incubated at 50degc and centrifuged.

by contrast the re- duction in portal delivery of bile acids may lead to lower uptake of bile acids by hepatocytes and thereby attenuate liver injury inflammation and fibrosis.our results are consistent with previous studies showing that modulation of the gut microbiota influences bile acid levels and metabolism 58-60. these studies have pointed to intestinal fxr signaling and the resultant changes in fgf15 and ceramides as potential intermediates between microbiota-induced changes in bile acids on the one hand and liver triglycerides and bile acid synthesis on the other hand.

a total bile acid concentration in plasma of ctrl rs and gg mice and concentration of free and conjugated primary and secondary bile acid subspecies in the plasma of ctrl and gg mice.

see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at article in journal of lipid research  march 2017doi 10.1194jlr.m075713citations4reads22917 authors including 27 publications 66 citations 8 publications 9 citations 19 publications 190 citations 21 publications 107 citations some of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projectsenterohepatic circulation of bile salts ppar genomic action and peroxysomal genes regulation modulation of the gut microbiota impacts nonalcoholic fatty liver disease a potential role for bile acidsaafke w. f. janssen tom houben saeed katiraeiss wieneke dijk lily boutensnieke van der bolt zeneng wang j. mark brown stanley l. hazen stephane mandardssss ronit shiri-sverdlov folkert kuipers ko willems van dijkss jacques vervoortssssssrinke stienstra guido j. e. j. hooiveld and sander kersten1nutrition metabolism and genomics group division of human nutrition and laboratory of biochemistryssssss wageningen university 6708 we wageningen the netherlands department of molecular genetics maastricht university 6200 md maastricht the netherlands departments of human geneticsss and medicine leiden university medical center 2300 rc leiden the netherlands department of medicine radboud university medical center nijmegen the netherlands department of cellular and molecular medicine cleveland clinic lerner research institute cleveland oh 44195 lipness team- inserm research center umr1231 and labex lipstic faculte de medecinessss universite de bourgogne- franche comte 21079 dijon cedex france and department of pediatrics and laboratory medicine university medical center groningen 9713 gz groningen the netherlandsabstract nonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld is the most common liver disease worldwide yet the pathogenesis of nafld is only partially understood.

along with the lower bodyweight weights of epididymal and mesenteric fat pads and liver were significantly lower in the gg group as compared with the ctrl group while the weight of the cecum was higher in both rs and gg groups fig.

in short the observed changes in nafld phenotype in the gg mice are unlikely to be mediated by lps ethanol or scfas.interestingly plasma levels of the gut-derived metabo- lites tma a product of microbial conversion of choline and tmao which is synthesized from tma in the liver were both significantly increased by gg while rs had no effect fig.

overall these data indicate that gg feeding markedly altered the bacterial composition in the colon.modulation of the gut microbiota by gg is associated with protection against diet-induced obesity and improved glucose tolerancewhereas rs did not influence bodyweight gain gg markedly attenuated bodyweight gain as compared with ctrl fig.

