2015 183 273-282.Desai M. S. Seekatz A. M. Koropatkin N. M. Kamada N. Hickey C. A. Wolter M. Pudlo N. A. Kitamoto S. Terrapon N. Muller A.

The addition ofdiCQAs reduced the relative abundance of Firmicutes in respective carbohydrate conditions P  0.05 B. DiCQAs had little effect on the relative abundance of Bacteroidetes P  0.05 except in the case of GOS and diCQAs significantly decreased its abundance when a-GOS was utilized as the carbon source P  0.05 C. In the conditions of all the carbohydrates and even without sugar diCQAs reduced the ratio of Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes FB compared to the corresponding group without diCQAs P  0.05 D and significantly increased the relative abundance of Proteobacteria P  0.05 except the GOS group P  0.05.

2015 9 1 1-15.Cani P. D. Neyrinck A. M. Fava F. Knauf C. Burcelin R. G. Tuohy K. M. Gibson G. R. Delzenne N. M. Selective increases of bifidobacteria in gut microflora improve high-fat-diet-induced diabetes in mice through a mechanism associated with endotoxaemia.

2008 27 2 104-119.Furusawa Y. Obata Y. Fukuda S. Endo T. A. Nakato G. Takahashi D. Nakanishi Y. Uetake C. Kato K. Kato T. Takahashi M. Fukuda N. N. Murakami S. Miyauchi E. Hino S. Atarashi K. Onawa S. Fujimura Y. Lockett T. Clarke J. M. Topping D. L. Tomita M. Hori S. Ohara O. Morita T. Koseki H. Kikuchi J. Honda K. Hase K. Ohno H. Commensal microbe- derived butyrate induces the differentiation of colonic regulatory T cells.

The intestinal microbiota may play a crucial role in catalyzing the breakage of diCQAs but the effects of diCQAs on intestinal microbiota have seldomly been studied.

The systems containing glucose sucrose a-GOS inulin and no addition of carbohydrate without diCQAs added were named as GLU SUC GOS INL and BLK respectively and the other parts supplied with diCQAs 1.0 gL were recorded as GLUD SUCD GOSD INLD and BLKD respectively.

With the addition of carbohydrates kudingcha diCQAs increased the a-diversity especially the Shannon and Simpson indexes compared to the corresponding culture condition without diCQAs P  0.05.

The results of the present study showed that diCQAs could increase the diversity of intestinal microbiota indicating that diCQAs from I. kudingcha have the potential in antiobesity by modulating the intestinal microflora.Effects of DiCQAs on the Overall Microbial Structure.Multivariate analyses were performed to compare the overallFigure 2.

The fermentations without carbohydrate addition BLK and BLKD were nearer to that of the group with addition of diCQAs that of OR was closer to those of the samples without diCQAs.

The contributions of diCQAs and sugars to the shift in the microbial composition were determined by CCA and the results are shown in D. DiCQAs exhibited much more impact on the fermentation in vitro on both CCA1 and CCA2 than the sugars glucose sucrose a-GOS and inulin indicating that diCQAs dominated the modulation on intestinal microbiota.

