comparisons were made between groups of mice supplementary figure s1 that remained uncolonized uc mice mono-colonized with b. fragilis b mice mono-colonized with sfb sfb and mice co-colonized with both bacteria sfb b to examine i influence of tcdd in presence of sfb sfb b  and ii influence of tcdd in absence of sfb uc and b. fragilis groups .

a separate group of mice was also mono-colonized with sfb or non-colonized to further verify the modulatory potential.materials and methodsanimal models and bacterial cocktailsgerm-free female c57bl6 mice were bred and maintained at the germ-free mouse facility housed in the unit for laboratory animal medicine at the university of michigan ann arbor mi united states and maintained in germ-free isolators.

previous studies have found that mice deficient in mucosaltable 1  body weight and t-cell number cd3 and cd4 in spleen blood and mesenteric lymph nodes lymph after tcdd 30 ugkg or vehicle sesame oil treatment of mice by oral gavage once every 4 days for 28 days.numbers indicate mean and standard error.

vehicle dosed mice veh and tcdd dosed mice tcdd.

however similar shifts in both bacteria in the gnotobiotic mice indicate this response can occur solely via tcdd-induced modulation of the host.tcdd-induced host response influences b. fragilisthe abundance of b. fragilis decreased in response to tcdd in the gnotobiotic mice.

to examine this question and the mechanisms for ahr ligand-induced bacterial shifts c57bl6 gnotobiotic mice were colonized with and without segmented filamentous bacteria sfb - an immune activator.

mice were also colonized with polysaccharide a producing bacteroides fragilis - an immune suppressor to serve as a commensal background.

following colonization mice were administered tcdd 30 ugkg every 4 days for 28 days by oral gavage.

quantified withmicrobial immunologythe ncounterqrmouse immunology panel opposing responses in ileal gene expressiona section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 10 june 2017accepted 23 august 2017published 07 september 2017citation stedtfeld rd chai b crawford rb stedtfeld tm williams mr xiangwen s kuwahara t cole jr kaminski ne tiedje jm and hashsham sa 2017 modulatory influence of segmented filamentous bacteria on transcriptomic response of gnotobiotic mice exposedto tcdd.

regulatory t-cells examined in the mesenteric lymph-nodes spleen and blood were also less impacted by tcdd in mice colonized with sfb.

tcdd-induced shifts in abundance of sfb and b. fragilis compared with previous studies in mice with a traditional gut microbiome.

with regard to the mouse model colonized with individual populations results indicate that tcdd-induced host response was significantly modulated by the presence of sfb in the gut microbiome providing insight into therapeutic potential between ahr ligands and key commensals.keywords tcdd segmented filamentous bacteria gnotobiotic mice regulatory t-cells gut dysbiosis host microbe response b. fragilisintroductiondysbiosis of certain key immune modulating commensals can influence host disposition to disease and environmental exposure  .

specific individual bacterial groups can also revive or influence differentiation of t-cells observed in germ free or antibiotic-treated mice      .

for example multiple immune activating strains isolated from mice and human stool including segmented filamentous bacteria sfb induce th17 cells in animal studies        .

it was also unknown if sfb response was due to structural shifts in other bacterial populations e.g.decreased abundance in bacteroidetes or due to tcdd-induced shifts in the host.to answer these questions and examine the modulatory potential of an immune activating bacteria in animals exposed to tcdd gnotobiotic mice were colonized with and without sfb.

