indeed the lower valerate production in the wb group can be partly explained by the higher abundance of genera with a negative correlation with valerate produc- tion the unclassifiedbacteroidales r  -0.55 the unclassifiedclostridiaceae r  -0.63 unclassifiedlachno- spiraceae otu2 r -0.58 and phascolarctobacterium r -0.73. moreover some valerate-producing genera as determined by the correlation matrix were more abundant in the con piglets than in the wb colinsella r  0.57 and odoribacter r  0.69. butyricimonas was positively correlated with butyrate r  0.80 iso-valerate r  0.75 and valerate r  0.86 production explaining partly the higher valerate and butyrate production of the con piglets as this genus was significantly more abundant than in the wb piglets.

scfa production in piglets' intestinal contents was measured and differences between groups were observed.in the caecum and colon acetate was higher for wb piglets compared to con animals whereas valerate was lower for wb piglets for each intestinal part.

it is particularly true for piglets for which colonization by microbiota has been demonstrated to be affected by stressbut may apply to sows as farrowing and lactation are stressful periods due to handlings on sows and piglets and accompanied with physiological changes.

the discrepancy between microbiota changes in sows and piglets can be ascribed to the use of faeces for sows and colon content for piglets which may not be the exact reflection of a sow's colon.

less butyrate was produced in the caecum of wb piglets and a lower concentration of valerate was observed in all intestinal parts of wb piglets.

email and activated t cells by using prebiotics but few focussed on the direct impact of sows' diet on the offspring's microbiota .wheat bran wb is a source of insoluble non-starch polysaccharides rich in arabinoxylans cellulose and lignin that is commonly used in sows' diets for its bulking properties and may be considered as a prebiotic due to its ability to be fermented in the large intestine-.

fourteen blood and meconium samples were collected in total 6 from con sows 8 from wb sows.

the y-axis represents the relative abundances of the different genera expressed as  of the total microbiota and the x-axis represents the individuals id number.figure 2. distribution of alpha diversity as measured by shannon index box plots represent the calculated shannon index for microbiota samples of sows fed the control diet con n  6 and the wheat bran-enriched diet wb n 6 at three different stages 21 d g21 and 98 d g98 of gestation respectively before and after the experimental diets were distributed and 20 d of lactation l.the scfa molar ratios of the sows' faeces see supplementary table  were not affected by the dietary treatment whatever the period while a period-effect was observed p 0.001 for the total scfa concentration.

individual wb sows are displayed in red and con sows in blue.umbilical cord blood and meconium.

negative correlations are expressed in the table with the symbol -.that is directly ingested by the foetus in the second part of the gestationcould be interesting in the future as well as placenta during c-section.regarding the main hypothesis in this experiment namely the introduction of wb into sows' diet and the impact on their microbiota it was shown that during gestation 13 genera abundances differed in sows' faeces between both dietary groups and 2 additional genera differed during lactation.

as it has been shown that wb can induce microbiota and scfa changes in growing pigs' ileum and faeces wb in the maternal diet was used in this study to investigate whether an altered microbiota was observed in sows' faeces at different time points and if this treatment could in turn affect the microbiota and scfa production of their offspring.

shows a numerical difference in the calculated shannon index between con 7.10 and wb 6.48 samples during g98 although the shannon index was not significantly different p-value  0.06. during g21 and l the p-value between groups were not significant p-value  1. the pcoa for sows sampled during gestation when fed the experimental diets shows a clear separation between the con and the wb groups the two axes explaining 68 of the total variability fig.

during the lactation period the butyrate-producing genus butyrivibrio was increased in the wb group 0.14 compared to the con group 0.04. different studies-showed an increase in bifidobacterium in the distal part of the gastrointestinal tract of growing pigs fed by a wb diet but this was not observed for sows in the present study.

for lactobacillus a significant difference was observed the future con group had a higher abundance than the future wb group which is the opposite of what we can observe numerically during g98.figure 1. individual composition of sows' a and piglets' b microbiota at the genus level.

meconium collected but in the small intestine like psychrobacter and acinetobacteror intable 2. microbial composition of the umbilical cord blood of piglets born from sows fed the control diet con n 6 and the wheat bran-enriched diet wb n 8 expressed as the percentage  of the total microbiota.

