the balance between intestinal microbiota intestinal epithelium and host immune system is decisive for normal functionality of the intestinal cells .

it is quite interesting that the balancebetween intestinal microbiota intestinal epithelium and host im- mune system is decisive for normal functionality of the intestinal cells.

it is believed that the intestinal component whose products determine the health of the colon and the individual and interact with environmental factors and the genetics of the person .the gi tract is the reservoir of diverse populations of microor- ganisms mainly bacteria that have adapted to life on mucosal surfaces or in the intestinal lumen .

this cleavage increases the permeability of the intestinal barrier and triggers b-cateninwnt signaling trans- duction in intestinal epithelial cells that contributes to the prolif- eration and oncogenic transformation of crc .

growing evi- dence suggests that the intestinal symbiotic bacterium e. faecalis produced extracellular superoxide and hydrogen peroxide lead- ing to intestinal epithelial cell dna damage both in vivo and in vitro test system  it is also evident that e. faecalis has an ability to induce dysplasia and carcinoma in il-10 eemice .

ereview article clinical microbiologymolecular mechanistic pathway of colorectal carcinogenesis associated with intestinal microbiotaparamita mandaldepartment of zoology the university of burdwan west bengal indiaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 22 june 2017 received in revised form 24 september 2017accepted 18 december 2017available online 19 december 2017 handling editor andrew bruce onderdonkkeywordscolorectal carcinogenesis inflammationmicrobiota biomarker risk factora b s t r a c t the colon rectal portion of gastrointestinal tract gi is full of microorganisms with different complex community that plays important role in maintaining homeostasis.

therefore there is certain evidence trying a target about the unclear mechanism between intestinal microbiota and crc.

therefore the aim of the study is to identify the possible mechanistic mechanism regarding host-microbiota interaction in colorectal carcinogenesis.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.contentsintroduction64colorectal carcinogenesis64predisposing factor of colorectal carcinogenesis65colo-rectal microbiota66microbiota and colon cancer66sulfate-reducing bacteria67enterotoxigenic bacteroides fragilis etbf67fusobacterium nucleatum67bile acid and secondary bile acid67reactive oxygen intermediates67mechanisms of action of intestinal microbiota in crc pathogenesis68conclusions68competing interests69e-mail address .1075-9964c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.funding69authors' contributions69conflicts of interest69acknowledgement69references69introductioncolorectal cancer is one of the most important fatal outcomes of ulcerative colitis in india.

imbalance in of normal intestinal microbiota can promote chronic inflammatory conditions and the production of carcinogenic me- tabolites leading to neoplasia .

there is growing evidence that the complex gut microbiota community plays an important role in the devel- opment of intestinal tumorigenesis.

the intestinal microbiota community has a closerelationship with crc by influencing the mechanism of the body and by regulating the physiological function of the colorectum and even the entire digestive system.

there are about 100 trillion bacteria in the human intestine of varying and elabo- rate structures which constitute the intestinal microbiome .

the human intestinal microbiota are dominated by facultative an- aerobes including lactobacilli enterococci streptococci and enterobacteriaceae and by strict anaerobes including bacteroides eubacterium bifidobacterium fusobacterium peptostreptococcus and atopobium .

this large group of bacteria are referred to as intestinal sym- biotic bacteria because of their mutualistic and interdependent relationship with the human body during the long period of co- evolution .

the intestinal microbiota com- munity has a close relationship with crc by both influencing mechanism of the body and regulating the physiological function of the colorectum and even the entire digestive system .

