however the diversity of ad-hies strains appears limited compared to what might be expected from the wide number of circulating clinical strains  and our analysis of atopic dermatitis strains.

similarly some ad-hies patients harbored strains that were positive for the superantigen genes seqsek 613 46. these toxin genes were found in only a striking minority of atopic dermatitis s. aureus isolates table s2.figure 2. detection of select toxin genes in s. aureus strains isolated from patients with ad-hies.

we sought to provide a more detailed strain-specific analysis of ad-hies-associated staphylococci since s. aureus strains are known for their varied expression of colonization and virulence factors that can influence disease frequency and severity  and specific strains have been linked to skin infections .we determined three different mlst sequence types in 13 s. aureus isolates from patients with ad-hies.

our results indicate that patients with ad-hies may often carry antibiotic-resistant strains that harbor key virulence factors.resultspatientswe swabbed the antecubital fossa and volar forearm of 36 patients with ad-hies and isolated mannitol-fermenting staphylococci for further characterization from 21 of these patients.

these were designated p-17 white and p-17 blue for their appearance on spectra mrsa plates figure a or p-19 large and p-19 small for their colony size on blood agar ba plates figure b. furthermore two patients with ad-hies p-10 and p-25 were swabbed on two different occasions and the resulting non-aureus staphylococcal nas isolates were designated p-10a p10b p25a and p25b respectively table .of all 25 mannitol-fermenting strains isolated from patients with ad-hies 1325 52 were s. aureus as defined by coagulase-positivity table  and 1225 48 were nas such ashaemolyticus or s. hominis determined by 16s rrna sequencing table .

in fact the colonizing strains of patients seem to be enriched for virulence factors and antibiotic resistance which is likely a reflection of exposure to health care settings and prophylactic antibiotics.materials and methodsethics statementall subjects were evaluated at the nih between 1 december 2013 and 30 june 2015. all subjects provided informed consent on clinical research protocols approved by the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases niaid institutional review board clinical trials.gov identifiers nct00006150 and nct02262819.collection and isolation of staphylococcisubjects with ad-hies n  36 or clinically diagnosed atopic dermatitis without a known genetic disorder n  13 were swabbed at the antecubital fossa and volar forearm common sites of eczematous lesions colonized by s. aureus in ad-hies as well as other forms of atopic dermatitis .

aureus strains all strains identified as s. aureus were genetically characterized by multi-locus sequence typing mlst and staphylococcal protein a spa-typing assessed for the presence of luksf-pv sek and seq virulence genes tested for methicillin resistance and assessed for their ability to lyse erythrocytes of human sheep and rabbit origin.

we evaluated the broad potential of the isolated strains to lyse blood fromanimal sheep rabbit and human origin and found that all strains similarly lysed rabbit and sheep blood.

the aim of this study was to determine whether the immunodeficiency of ad-hies selects for unique strains of colonizing s. aureus.

our results indicate that patients with ad-hies may often carry antibiotic-resistant strains that harbor key virulence factors.keywords staphylococcus aureus job's syndrome stat3 multi-locus sequence typingintroductionstaphylococcus aureus colonizes human mucosa and skin and is a major human pathogen that causes a strikingly broad range of infections ranging from relatively minor skin abscesses to potentially life-threatening pneumonia osteomyelitis endocarditis necrotizing fasciitis septicemia and toxic shock syndrome .

molecular characterization of the staphylococcal strains present on the skin of ad-hies patients has not been previously described.

here we identified the species of cultivable mannitol-fermenting staphylococcal strains present on the skin of patients with ad-hies.

disease severity was assessed using the scoring atopic dermatitis scorad index scale  and further classified as mild scorad  25 moderate scorad 25-50 or severe scorad  50. median scorad at time of swab was 16 range 2-56. none of these patients had a history of skin abscesses or were on prophylactic antibiotics at the time of swabbing.table 1. demographics and clinical characteristics of patients with ad-hies.patientstat3 mutationstat3 mutationhistory ofon age in years m male f female a asian b black h hispanic w white dna dna binding domain sh2 src homology 2 domain pna pneumonia cmc chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis y yes n no.strain isolation and identificationto isolate s. aureus strains from individuals with ad-hies skin swabs were plated on mannitol salt agar msa.

we obtained 25 mannitol-fermenting staphylococcal strains from the skin of 21 individuals with ad-hies.

an overview of all mannitol-fermenting strains isolated from these patients with ad-hies is provided in tables and .

