The correlation coefficients R2 and effi- ciency of amplification were calculated as described in .Quantification of the viable bacteria in the milk curd and cheese was carried out by amplifying 1 ml of cDNA and using the standard curves for the calculation of the counts.Bacterial RNA analysis by means of Illumina high-throughput sequencingA high-throughput sequencing approach was applied to a total of 15 samples 5 samples from milk curd and cheese.

After 2 h of drainage the coagulum is cut into15 15 cm cubes and placed in 15e20 saline water where it is left for 9e10 h. The curd is consequently covered with dry salt and kept in a basin for 2e3 days during which whey drainage continues.

The Shannon-Wiener diversity index H' was further analyzed using the t-test to assess any differences between the milk curd and cheese samples.

KEGG orthologs were then collapsed at a hierarchy level of 3 and the table was imported into R. The made4 package was adopted and hierarchical Ward-linkage clustering based on the Spearman correlation coefficients of the proportion of the activities belonging to lipid carbohydrates and amino acid metabolism pathways was used to produce a heatplot.All the sequencing data were deposited at the Sequence ReadArchive of the National Center for Biotechnology Information SRP074051.ResultsIdentification and total bacterial counts during ripeningEleven different bands corresponding to the bacterial V3 region were observed in the milk curd and cheese samples .

The other group cheeseand curd samples showed a higher presumptive abundance of genes related to a carbohydrate metabolism such as starch and sucrose metabolisms amino-sugar and fructose metabolisms as well as amino acid catabolism related genes.DiscussionLiqvan is a traditional Iranian cheese that has been found to represent an interesting case for the study of fermented food as it originates from a particular region in Iran and it has long been prepared the same way using an ancient methodology.

The milk samples were characterized by gene profiles that were related to the aminoacid metabolism and high proteolitic activity due to the spoilage bacteria while putative genes charac- terized the curd and cheese related to carbohydrate depletion which was presumably associated with the nature of the highly competitive LAB that dominated during the ripening period.In conclusion in the present work the study of microbial pop- ulation with culture independent techniques has provided a better understanding of the bacterial structure of Liqvan cheese during its processing and ripening.AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank the Iranian Biological Resource Center IBRC ACECR MI-1392-25 for their partial financial sup- port.

Other LAB were randomly distributed between curd and cheese except Lactococcus raffinolactis that was not found in cheese.The results of the quantification RT-PCR showed 8.5 - 0.2 log CFUml for milk and 5.8 - 0.2 and 3.5 - 0.1 log CFUg for curd and cheese respectively.

Moreover the average OTU numbers between different producers were 2333.8 - 515.63 in milk 1545.6 - 489.01 in curd and 1594.4 - 298.14 in cheese while Chaol values that reflect the operational taxonomic unit richness were ranged from 3933.67 - 440.16 2758.24 - 904.50 and 2419.38 - 306.59 betweenmilk curd and cheese.

The grazing pastures environmental conditions and the ancient regional production methods allocate a distinctive microbial ecology to this type of cheese and these factors are consequently associated with the quality of the product.

The results showed that the main bacterial population in the milk belonged to both microbial contaminants and lactic acid bacteria LAB.

