the sequencing of 16s rrna has been successfully applied for bacterial genus classification  while molecular markers such as repetitive- element pcr rep-pcr has been aiding the classification of bacterial isolates by genomic fingerprint patterns  .owing to bring up to date the researches comprising bacterial contamination of anterior chamber after phacoemulsification of dogs this study aimed to identify bacterial contaminants of aqueous humor of dogs during the surgery with intraocular lens implantation by mole- cular approaches and genetically correlate them with those present in the conjunctival surface.methods techniquespatientsa total of 20 non-diabetic dogs of different breeds affected by bi- lateral immature or mature cataracts were sampled.

genus was found in both aqueous humor and conjunctival surface samples from dogs 1 and 4. in the molecular tree obtained by rep-pcr analysis we observed some enterobacter spp.

the dogs did not show systemic or ophthalmic diseases and sequelae of ocular in- flammation except for the cataracts.preoperative therapyone hour before surgery the dogs received one drop of topical combination of dexamethasone and tobramycin tobradex alcon labs sao paulo brazil.

2. bayesian analysis of 16s rrna region of the representative bacterial isolates obtained from con- junctival surface and aqueous humor samples of dogs submitted to phacoemulsification.table 1number of positive bacterial colonies from conjunctival surface c and aqueous humor samples collected before and after phacoemulsification hb and ha of three dogs that had their anterior chamber contaminated during the surgery.fig.

even after contamination of the anterior chamber the dogs 1 and 4 did not de- velop endophthalmitis.discussionsome of the bacterial strains and genus identified in aqueous humor samples were not present in those from conjunctival surface which leads us to point out not only the microbiota from conjunctival surface as source of contamination but also additional sources.bacterial growth has been reported in conjunctival surface in 65 of cases in humans  and 81.8 in dogs  .

belongs to the bacterial flora of conjunctival surface of dogs and is considered the most abundant genus in clinically healthy dogs .

isolates from conjunctival surface were identified as enterobacter spp.

staphylococcus spp.

and s. aureus and from aqueous humor samples as enterobacter spp.

pantoea spp.

streptococcus spp.

and staphylococcus spp.

according to the rep-pcr analysis 16.6 of enterobacter spp.

these isolates were identified as en- terobacter spp.

staphylococcus spp.

