mutations in the quinolone resistance-determining region qrdr of the dna gyrase gyra and gyrb andor topoisomerase iv parc and pare gyrase genes as well as increased efflux due to the multi- antimicrobial extrusion mate family protein encoded by the bexa gene may result in fluoroquinolone resistance .in a recent hungarian antibiotic resistance survey six multi- drug-resistant mdr bacteroides isolates were identified and are the focus of this study.methodsbacterial strains and cultivationin this study 400 bacteroides isolates collected from clinically relevant samples by five hungarian clinical microbiology centres between january 2014 and march 2016 were investigated.

the clinical data of patients who were infected by mdr bacteroides isolates as well as the isolate mics are summarised in .table 2pcr parameters for the genes and genetic elements examined.real-time pcr rt-pcrmolecular investigations of the mdr isolates were carried out in order to detect most common antibiotic resistance genes cepa cfxa cfia nim ermb ermf ermg tetq tetx tetx1 and bexa is4351 and the upstream region of the cfia and cfxa genes.

tigecycline and chloramphenicol were very active against these isolates all of them being susceptible to these two drugs.discussionto date mdr bacteroides isolates have been rarely reported.

molecular characterisation of multidrug-resistant bacteroides isolates from hungarian clinical sampleskaroly peter sarvari jozsef soki katalin kristof emese juhasz cecilia misztiszilvia zsoka melegh krisztina latkoczy edit urbana institute of clinical microbiology university of szeged 6 semmelweis street h-6725 szeged hungaryb institute of laboratory medicine semmelweis university 4 nagyvarad square h-1089 budapest hungaryc institute of medical microbiology university of debrecen 98 nagyerdei avenue h-4032 debrecen hungaryd institute of medical microbiology and immunology university of pecs 12 szigeti street h-7624 pecs hungarye synlab ltd. 53 megyeri street h-1044 budapest hungarya r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 4 august 2017received in revised form 21 october 2017 accepted 24 october 2017available online 31 october 2017keywordsmultidrug resistance bacteroidesantibiotic resistance genes agar dilutionsequencing rt-pcra b s t r a c tobjectives members of the bacteroides fragilis group are the most important components of the normal human gut microbiota however these bacteria can also cause severe infections.

due to frequent use of antibiotics the spread of multidrug-resistant mdr strains is a real threat worldwide.methods in a multicentre study 400 bacteroides isolates from five hungarian microbiology laboratories were cultured and were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorptionionisation time-of-flight mass spectrometry maldi-tofms.

among the six mdr isolates one cfia- two cepa- three cfxa- two ermg- six tetq- three tetx- and two bexa-positive strains were found.

none of the mdr isolates harboured cepa nim ermb or tetx1 genes.

within a comprehensive multicentre survey we demonstrated the relatively high prevalence of mdr strains isolated in one centre with five isolates as well as one isolate from another centre during a relatively short period of time.

bacteroides fragilis can cause intra- abdominal and skin and soft-tissue infections as well as diarrhoea caused by enterotoxin-producing b. fragilis isolates particularly inyoung children below 5 years of age .

reported high corresponding author.e-mail address e. urban.rates of resistance to cefoxitin clindamycin and moxifloxacin among b. fragilis group isolates strains however amoxicillin clavulanic acid amc piperacillintazobactam tzp carbape- nems and metronidazole remained very active antibiotics against these strains .antibiotic resistance is mediated by chromosomal genes or by extrachromosomal plasmids transferred by different types of transposons some genes require insertion sequence is elementsupstream of the gene for their expression.

among the 400 strains identified 6 mdr isolates were found.

the following positive controls were used b. fragilis 638r cepa bacteroides vulgatus cla341 cfxa tetq b. fragilis 638r nim b. fragilis bf8 ermf b. thetaiotaomicron ermg b. fragilis bm13 tetx1 and b. fragilis pbrt21 bexa .sequencing of the gyra genethe dna amplicon of b. fragilis sz38 proportional scale-up to 30 ml was purified using a gelpcr dna fragment extraction kit geneaid biotech ltd. new taipei city taiwan and the pcr products were sequenced using an abi bigdye1 terminator v.3.1kit in a series genome analyser 3500 life technologies carlsbad ca.resultsa multicentre national survey was performed of 400 bacteroides strains among which 6 mdr isolates were found including 1b.

regarding the geographical distribution one mdr strain was isolated from debrecen b. ovatus d92 and five were isolated from szeged b. vulgatus sz4 and sz34 b. ovatus sz9 b. thetaiotaomicron sz35 and b. fragilis sz38 but no isolates were found from the other centres .

most of the mdr isolates displayed resistance to ampicillin n  6 cefoxitin n  4 moxi- floxacin n  5 clindamycin n  4 and tetracycline n  5 with a range of resistance from four to six different antibiotic classes.the results of the genetic analysis are summarised in .

none of the strains harboured the cepa gene whereas three cfxa-positive isolates b. vulgatus sz4 b. ovatus sz9 and b. thetaiotaomicron sz35 were detected.

