vogeltechnische universiteurat mueurnchen lehrstuhl fueurr technische mikrobiologie freising germanykeywordsmaldi-tof ms fingerprinting map meat spoilage spoilage-associated psychrophilic psychrotrophic microbiota.correspondencerudi f. vogel lehrstuhl fueurr technische mikro- biologie tu mueurnchen gregor-mendel-strasse 4 85354 freising germany.e-mail present address bavarian center for biomolecular mass spectrometry technische universiteurat mueurnchen freising germany20171465 received 26 july 2017 revised 17november 2017 and accepted 5 december2017doi10.1111jam.13669abstractaims this study aimed to explore the discriminatory power of maldi-tof ms as a high-throughput method to monitor growth dynamics of meat- spoiling bacteria on modified atmosphere packaged map beef and to differentiate psychrophilic and psychrotrophic spoilage-associated strains.methods and results map beef steaks were incubated for 21 days at constant4 and 10degc.

however this community change and probable metabolic shift to amino acid metabolism resulting in putrid off-odour seem to have subordinate importance for spoilage indica- tion because the beef was already considered spoiled by highly abundant lab causing meat greening and off- odour.influence of atmosphere and substrate availability on growth of essoalthough being offered a niche with easily available sub- strates on beef ma packaging and cold storage create conditions that can be challenging for microorganisms therefore prolonging shelf life church and parsons 1995. concomitant presence of oxygen and carbon diox- ide inhibits strict anaerobes and aerobes respectively farber 1991. however well-adapted psychrotrophic e ssos--lc.

2009 role of biogenic amines as index of freshness inbeef meat packed with different biopolymeric materials.food res int 42 1147-1152.gill c. 1983 meat spoilage and evaluation of the potential storage life of fresh meat.

2016 identification and growth dynamics of meat spoilage microorganisms in modified atmosphere packaged poultry meat by maldi- tof ms. food microbiol 60 84-91.hollo' g. csapo' j. szucs e. tozs'er j. repa i. and hollo' i.

piscium was enhanced in both batches when beef was stored at 10degc.the next stage of meat spoilage is the organoleptic onset of perceptible spoilage.

gelidum tmw21998 with characteristic psychrophilic growth behaviour.conclusions we suggest that control of initial contaminants is crucial to predict the onset of spoilage and that headspace atmosphere and ph are important parameters with spoilage-indicative potential.significance and impact of the study maldi-tof ms proved suitable for high-resolution monitoring of psychrotrophic and psychrophilic spoilage- associated microbiota and enables improved insights in the spoilage progress.

1996 bacterial spoilage of meat and cured meat products.

meat sci 22 65-71.gill c. 1996 extending the storage life of raw chilled meats.meat sci 43 99-109.gill c. and newton k. 1978 the development of aerobic spoilage flora on meat stored at chill temperatures.

2016 demonstrated the potential of maldi-tof ms to monitor growth dynamics of spoi- lage-associated microbiota on poultry meat packaged under different map.material and methodsbeef samples and sampling procedurefresh beef packages were obtained directly from a pro- ducer in germany minimum shelf life 7 days.

nov. int j syst evol microbiol 53 7-13.eisel w. linton r. and muriana p. 1997 a survey of microbial levels for incoming raw beef environmental sources and ground beef in a red meat processing plant.

the presence of psychrophilic strains on beef is the likely causative for unexplained spoilage events.introductionfresh meat is a highly perishable product which has to meet high customer demands towards hygienic safety colour organoleptics and sensorics.

maldi-tof ms is a highly valuable tool for identification of spoilage-associated microbiota but it is crucial to rely on a database with several msps entered per species to ensure reliable identi- fication.the onset of meat spoilagegrowth dynamic experiments were conducted to explore in-depth development of spoilage-associated microbial composition during spoilage beef steaks at different tem- peratures.

1987 is a heterofermentative lab that was first isolated from beef holzapfel and gerber 1983. previous studies report that this bacterium is associated with meat spoilage jones 2004 laursen et al.

fur- thermore isolation of psychrophilic bacteria not able to grow even at 25degc but involved in meat spoilage was car- ried out at 4degc as used upon the storage condition of refrigerated beef.

appl environ microbiol 73 2354-2359.ercolini d. russo f. nasi a. ferranti p. and villani f. 2009 mesophilic and psychrotrophic bacteria from meat and their spoilage potential in vitro and in beef.

