unfortunately 4 weeks of voluntary 10 etoh consumption in drinking water etoh-dwfailed to produce major liver pathology in chap mice   suggesting a more aggressive regimen must be required.the study by demonstrated that chap as well as wild-type wt mice developed more severe liver injury while consuming the lieber-decarli alcohol containing diet for 4 weeks followed by a single etoh binge by gavage ld-etohb mice compared to animals maintained on a standard rodent chow and voluntary alcohol intake plus an etoh gavage etoh-dwb mice.

a critical observation was that the chap mice on the etoh-dw regimen consumed significantly more ethanol than chap or wt mice on the ld-etoh diet however this difference did not result in more severe liver injury in these mice.

the liquid lieber-decarli ld alcohol diet was a major advance in that the animals consumed alcohol with the liquid diet usually for a 4-week period of time.

one group received a pelleted diet which contained much more fiber than the ld liquid diet.

the ld diet was 40 fat and the pelleted diet 14 fat.

in the present study the ld diet is high in linoleic acid compared to the chow diet and it is low in fiber which is a substrate for butyrate production.a critical role of the gut microbiome and fecal metabolites is becoming increasingly appreciated in experimental and human ald.

an alcohol-preferring strain and wt mice were fed alcohol by different techniques and with different diet compositions.

this editorial highlights how diet and the gut microbiomemetabolome may influence the developmentseverity of ald.alcoholic liver disease ald is a major health problem both in the usa and worldwide.

this type of diet even for longer periods usually only causes hepatic steatosis with limited liver injury inflammation and no fibrosis.

among them dietnutrition is highly relevant to both clinical and experimental ald.although the authors in this study did not specify the compos- ition of the control liquid ld diet the levels of protein carbohydrate and fat in commonly used ld diets vary between 15-17 35-45 and 35-40 of total energy respectively.

therefore the ways the ani- mals were fed and their diet compositions were dramatically different in the thompson et al.

one group received alcohol in their water supply and the other ld in their liquid diet.

effects of diet on the microbiomemetabolome are also well documen- ted but not evaluated in this project.

it is critical in all experimental ald studies that the diet composition be well defined.

we suggest that diet and micro- biome may be important variables in the different outcomes and lack of reproducibility observed in various experimental ald models.conflict of interest statementnone declared.referenceskirpich ia petrosino j ajami n et al.

