the collected insects were frozen identified morphologically to species and pooled from each trap into samples containing 1-50 mosquitoes of the same species table 1. if only one individual of a speciestable 1  mosquito species captured and sampled for west nile virus wnv from 2011 to 2013 in ontario canada.was present in a trap this provided an unpooled sample with only one mosquito.following homogenization and centrifugation rna was extracted from 200 ul of supernatant supplemental methods.

2007. out of seven species with single mosquito samples showing some wnv positives 6 species had higher mean abundance of asaia and 7 species had higher mean abundance of wolbachia in wnv uninfected compared to infected mosquitoes.

while we could not distinguish between closely related species of aedes vexans complex or among four ochlerotatus species o. canadiensiso.

the mean sd bacterial richness in microbiota of all 11 species was 50.9 17.3 bacterial otus for single-mosquito samples and 64.8 31.3 bacterial otusfor pooled samples figure 2. highly abundant taxa found to be associated with at least one of the analyzed mosquito species were primarily of the phylum proteobacteria including asaia wolbachia serratia pseudomonas and other bacteria from the family enterobacteriaceae.

2016 when microbial communities are clustered at 99 otu identity all beta-diversity analyses conducted indicate significant phylosymbiosis for the wildmosquito species and their respective microbial communities table s3.wolbachiawithin the 11 species analyzed three cx.

vexans complex including acetobacteraceae bacteroidetesenterobacteriaceae and asaia figure 6. seasonal dynamics were not analyzed for the 9 other host species with smaller sample sizes.seasonal changes in wnv prevalence and microbiotasampling mosquitoes for wnv and microbiota across a 3 year period in ontario revealed 6 species as potential vectors for wnv table 1 with the highest prevalence in the cx.

we found that host species was the largest driver of the microbiota while region had little impact for the species tested cx.

inthe study presented here we observed significant p  0.005 similarities between the host species phylogeny and the microbial community composition within a given species using the same analysis.

we sampled the microbial communities in 11 adult mosquito host species from six regions in southern ontario canada over 3 years.

of the factors examined we found that mosquito species was the largest driver of the microbiota with remarkable phylosymbiosis between host and microbiota.

both host species and seasonal shifts in microbiota were associated with patterns of west nile virus wnv in these mosquitoes.

the highest prevalence of wnv with a seasonal spike each year in august was in the culex pipiensrestuans complex and high wnv prevalence followed a decrease in relative abundance of wolbachia in this species.

the microbiota may also influence disease dynamics.recent studies indicate that each mosquito species harbors specific microbiota even when larvae are raised under common conditions coon et al.

2016. this distinction holds even when host species share habitat and are closely related and morphologically indistinct muturi et al.

for example do differences in bacterial communities among mosquito species depend on season are there specific bacteria important in structuring the microbiota that dependent on regional environmental acquisitionsome microbes in particular the vertically transmitted endosymbiotic bacteria wolbachia have been shown to modulate pathogen infection and transmission in insects e.g.

