For example on airway epithelia the coordinated beat of motile cilia creates a horizontal flow across their tips 9-12 which clears mucus microorganisms and debris Fig.

We propose that mucociliary epithelia are not restricted to homo- geneous organization but that cilia populations can vary in morphology kinematics and spatial distribution giving rise to distinct fluid-mechanical microhabitats with transport functions that extend well beyond the cilia tips Fig.

During embryo- genesis the light organ surface develops two complex juvenile- specific ciliated fields--each featuring two appendages--that are lost after colonization by symbiotic bacteria which indicates a pos- sible role of the cilia in promoting symbiont recruitment Fig.

Specifically we asked whether ciliary flow facilitates the recruitment of free- living V. fischeri cells from inhaled seawater and facilitates their engagement with the surface pores.In the current model 17 18 ciliary activity forms a conveyor belt of adhesive mucus which directly intercepts particulates from the inhaled stream of seawater and moves them closer tothe light organ's entry pores Fig.

Instead we found that one population of cilia generated an outer vortical flow zone extend- ing far beyond the surface  200-300 um and focusing bacte- ria and other micrometer-sized particles into an inner sheltered zone near the surface pores while preventing suspended matter from adhering elsewhere Fig.

In this zone a second struc- turally distinct population of cilia gently mixes the fluid a behav- ior that could facilitate chemical signaling between host and bac- teria 19 and thereby promote successful colonization of the light organ.We discovered these mechanisms by following an integrated experimental and computational approach for dissecting the multiscale structure-function relationships that link the initia- tion of a bacteria-host association to both the cilia-generated flows and the structure of the ciliated tissues Fig.

In the early stages of symbiosis wild-type V. fischeri as well as nonmotile mutants of V. fischeri nonsymbiont bacte- ria and bacteria-sized synthetic particles all accumulate at the light-organ surface Fig.

This result poses two questions i Does the respi- ratory flow directly deliver bacteria-sized particles to the ciliated surface And ii how is larger particulate matter excluded from this surfaceUsing video microscopy and particle tracking we observed two counterrotating fluid vortices near the appendages of the light organ Fig.

We used a rapid-fixation protocol which freezes cil- iary motion followed by scanning electron microscopy Fig.

High-speed video recordings  and confocal imaging followed by kymograph analyses ciliary beat frequency analysis and kinematic analyses Fig.

