coprophagy is known to affect the intesti- nal microbiota within litters and can be avoided by cages equipped with grids but coprophagy is still considered as an important difference between human and mice .murine versus human microbiotathe phylogenetic makeup of the bacterial communities in both human and mouse seems to be similar at phylum level where the two main bacterial phyla of the murine intestinal tract are the bacteroidetes and the firmicutes  .

sfb have been thought to be lacking in humans but a recent very deep analysis provided support for their presence in some human infants during the first 3 years of life although no functional studies have yet been performed that would sup- port a similar role in immune maturation as for their murine counterparts .a recent comparative survey of the phylogenetic compo-sition of 16 human subjects and 3 often used mouse lines indicated that their microbiota looks alike but is quantita- tively very different .

the differences in composition and diversity of intestinal tract microbiota in these animal groups indicate that both diet and host collectively affect the microbial com- position -.studies of the local microbiota at different locations along the human intestinal tract require rather invasive samplingmethods.

doinguyen tl vieira-silva s liston a raes j 2015 how inform- ative is the mouse for human gut microbiota research dis mod- els mech 811-16. doihildebrand f nguyen tl brinkman b yunta rg cauwe b vandenabeele p et al 2013 inflammation-associated entero- types host genotype cage and inter-individual effects drive gut microbiota variation in common laboratory mice.

hence future studies should take these into account to truly show the effect of diet genotype or environmental factors on the microbial composition.keywords microbiome  metagenome  phylogeny  murine models  reproducibility  dietintroductionin adult life a healthy human may harbor several hundreds of different microbial species in their intestine which col- lectively encode more than 100-fold more non-redundant genes than there are in the human genome -.

it has been estimated that presently over 90 of the rodents used for pharmaceutical research are mice .the mouse versus the human genomelineages of men and mouse are separated by more than 90 million years of evolution yet more than 85 of the genomic sequences between mouse and human are stillfig.

however it should be emphasized that most human functional studies have been performed with cell lines and it is known that their expression patterns may differ from the large variety of tissue-specific expression in the human body.

the mucus growth rate was shown to be higher in the human colon 240 - 60 um per h as compared to that in the murine colon 100 - 60 um per h. furthermore the final mucus layer was demonstrated to be thicker in the human 480 - 70 um as compared to the mouse colon 190 - 40 um.

2018 75149-160 httpsdoi.org10.1007s00018-017-2693-8cellular and molecular life sciencesmouse models for human intestinal microbiota research a critical evaluationfloor hugenholtz13  willem m. de vos12received 25 september 2017  accepted 29 september 2017  published online 9 november 2017c the authors 2017. this article is an open access publicationabstract since the early days of the intestinal microbi- ota research mouse models have been used frequently to study the interaction of microbes with their host.

however to translate the knowledge gained from mouse studies to a human situation the major spatio-temporal similarities and differences between intestinal microbiota in mice and humans need to be considered.

early comparative analyses of the intestinal microbiota of human and other animals have shown that each mammalian species harbors a distinct microbial composition and can be grouped based on their microbial community and diet .

pioneering studies have used these and provided the first molecular biogeography of the human intestinal microbiota by addressing colonic and ileal sites  .

halfway the colonic mucosa is flat and in the distal colonic mucosa there are longitudinal folds while the human colonic mucosa has transverse folds throughout the colon .the overall intestinal transit time is known to affect the intestinal microbiota.

genetic polymorphisms that affect fucosylation have an impact on the microbiota in human particular on the bifidobacterial composition as well as on the abundance of bifidobacterium bacteroides and akkermansia spp.

the generation interval of gut microbiota human or murine needs to betimes the retention time to maintain a population of the same numerical size and to prevent washout .

