this may however be just one of many mechanisms by which endometrial epithelial cells respond to damps since a pro-inflammatory response can also be induced by sterile cellular necrosis.genital tract epithelial cells may also act as immune effector cells when challenged by bacteria.

macrophages endometrial epithelial cells and dendritic cells interact with t- cells to elicit cellular responses and regulate antibody responses.

epithelial cells may also secrete il33 an il1 family member that could activate nk cells t- helper cells and an anti-inflammatory phenotype of macrophagesto facilitate regulation of uterine inflammation b. our recently concluded study on the comparison of cytokine expressiondegranulation by secreting prostaglandins.

resolution of uterine inflammatory processes b may involve both epithelial cells as well as a variety of immune cells including anti-inflammatory macrophages m2 regulatory t-cells treg natural killer nk cells and possibly commensal bacteria.

it is not clear whether damps or pamps initiate the pro-inflammatory process during uterine involution but either of these signals may induce the cytokine release from epithelial cells and other immune cells that attracts neutrophils a.during the first wk postpartum there is marked neutrophil recruitment 68 of total cells obtained on endometrial cytology following normal parturition and this neutrophil recruitment is closely associated with increased cytokine secretion seen in clini- cally normal cows until 24 days in milk .

specialized epithelial cells in the genital tract also contribute to genital tract defense mechanisms by secreting mucus that facilitates physical clearance of microbial contaminants .bovine genital tract epithelial cells similar to immune cellshave the capacity to recognize pathogen-associated molecular pattern molecules pamps as well as damage-associated molecular patterns damps through a variety of pattern recognition re- ceptors prrs a. most studies analyzing responses to pamps and damps in the genital tract have focused primarily on the uterus but some information is available for the oviduct.

this would enhance our understanding of the role cytokines and amp play in regulating uterine inflammation.endometrial epithelial cells may function not only as immunesensors and effectors but may also act as regulators of immune cell function through the secretion of cytokines a. cytokines such as il8 are potent neutrophil chemoattractants and granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor gm-csf secreted by epithelial cells is required for macrophage maturation .

in mice potential pro- genitor cells of epithelial and stromal origin contribute to epithelial regeneration and thus maintain epithelial integrity during the postpartum period.

genital tract mucosal epithelial cells recognize damage-associated molecular patterns and pathogen-associated molecular patterns and respond by secreting antimicrobial peptides and cytokines to recruit and activate immune cells.

bovine endo- metrial epithelial cells express transcripts for toll-like receptor tlr-1 to 7 and 9 genes while endometrial stromal cells expressedfig.

interleukin-33 secreted from epithelial cells and m1 pro-inflammatory macrophages in the later stages of inflammation promotes differentiation of macrophage toward a m2-type phenotype and promotes t-cell differentiation to treg cells.

increased neutrophil proportions in uterine cytological smears have been used to diagnose uterine inflammation based on threshold proportions of neutrophils in relation to total cells recovered neutrophils plus endometrial epithelial cells.

around the second wk postpartum e the simple columnar uterine epithelial barrier is breached at the caruncles due to death of epithelial cells.

secretions from genital tract epithelial cells contain a variety of peptides and proteins that possess non-specific antimicrobial properties and act as regulators of inflammation b. the exact mechanisms by which endometrial epithelial cell secretion of antimicrobial peptides is controlled is not clear but most likely involves cytokine stimulation.

other possible mechanisms include passive diffusion or active transport of igg by specific receptors such as the neonatal fc re- ceptor and similar to other bovine mucosal surfaces endometrial epithelial cells may produce secretory component which is considered necessary in other tissues for dimeric iga transfer across epithelial surfaces .cell-differentiation cd4 protein expressing t-cells t-helpercells as well as cd8 expressing t-cells cytotoxic t-cells bothexpressing abt-cell receptors are located primarily in perivascular areas of uterine stromal tissue .

