Thus HIV preferentially infects activated CD4 T cells and these cells have an enhanced capacity to promote viral transmission and replica- tion  thereby enabling the efficient systemic spread of the virus.The community of bacteria viruses and fungi termed the ''microbiome'' that inhabits mammalian barrier surfaces has a profound impact on immune prim- ing and the development function andactivation of immune cells including CD4 T cells.

.Satb1 Restraining PD1 and T Cell ExhaustionBriana G. Nixonand Ming O. Li1Immunology Program Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center New York NY 10065 USA2Graduate Program in Immunology and Microbial Pathogenesis Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences Cornell University NewYork NY 10065 USACorrespondence Mechanisms that govern PD1 expression and exhaustion in T cells are not fully understood.

2017 uncover a key role for the genome organizer Satb1 in restraining PD1 expres- sion and promoting tumor immunity.The inhibitory coreceptor programmed cell death 1 PD1 encoded by the Pdcd1 gene is transiently induced upon T cell receptor TCR engagement and T cell activation.

2017 set out to clarify how this genomic organizer influences CD8 T cell function.The authors first demonstrate that TCR and CD28 costimulatory signals induce Satb1 protein expression in both human and mouse T cells and that this inductionImmunity 46 January 17 2017 a 2017 Published by Elsevier Inc. 3

In the present issue Kwon and colleagues follow a cohort of young HIV-uninfected South African women and found a link between specific bacte- rial taxa residing within the vaginal mu- cosa and the subsequent risk for acqui- sition of HIV opening the door to new possibilities for strategies to limit HIV transmission .HIV infects and deteriorates the CD4 T cell arm of the adaptive immune system a process that precipitates the lethal condition of AIDS.

The virus in particular thrives in the setting of inflammation and immune activation for pro-inflammatory molecules signal to CD4 T cells to upregulate various cell surface proteins that facilitate HIV fusion and entry.

Critically in the present cohort the cervicolavage fluid of these latter two cervicotypes also con- tained greater numbers of CCR5 CD4 T cells the primary targets of HIV infec- tion and these cells were of an activated phenotype HLA-DRCD38 known to beImmunity 46 January 17 2017 a 2017 Elsevier Inc. 1ImmunityPreviewsFigure 1.

ex- hibited higher vaginal mucosal chemokines pro-inflammatory cytokines and CCR5 CD4 T cells indi- cating greater mucosal recruitment of target cells able to be infected by HIV.

In turn the presence of such communities was associated with higher HIV acquisition rates as compared to vaginal communities dominated by Lactobacillus crispatus which exhibited fewer CCR5 CD4 T cells lower levels of cytokines and chemokines and lower HIV acquisition right.

Future studies might uncover methods by which the vaginal microbiome might be durably colonized with L. crispatus in women at risk of HIV acquisition in order to mitigate inflammation and T cell recruitment with the goal of reducing HIV transmis-highly permissive for viral replication.

