vincentii 11numbers of polymorphic sites present within the 41 strains of t. denticola 1.72 were broadly comparable to those present in the 7 t. putidum strains 1.38. the propor- tions of polymorphic sites were considerably lower in the respective phylogroup 1 species ranging from 0.00 across the 4 t. sinensis strains to 0.41 across the 11 t. vincentii strains.

within animal foot and soft tissue lesions see for example references and .here we used a four-gene mlsa approach to delineate genetic similarities and differences between oral treponeme reference strains and clinical isolates belonging to phylogroups 1 and 2. our data suggest that several isolates previously classified as t. vincentii and t. medium should be placed within other taxonomic groupings some of which most probably constitute novel species.resultsobtaining gene sequences data sets from phylogroup 1 and 2 oral treponeme strains.

the results are summarized in see also table s3 in the supplemental material.the proportions of polymorphic sites were equivalent in the 16s rrna gene se- quences from the respective sets of oral phylogroup 1 strains 2.52 and oral phylo- group 2 strains 2.74. within the respective species phylotypes there was consid- erable variation in the numbers  of 16s rrna polymorphic sites present.

the levels of nucleotide diversity ti for the respective flaa pyrh and reca genes were slightly higher in the phylogroup 1 strains 0.078 to 0.098 than in the phylogroup 2 strains 0.042 to 0.064 which probably reflects the imbalance in the strains analyzed.mean global omega w values which are equivalent to the ratio of nonsynonymous dn to synonymous ds mutations i.e.

however the w values for the reca gene were higher in phylogroup 1 strains w  0.300 95 ci  0.276 to 0.326 compared to phylogroup 2 strains w  0.103 95 ci  0.087 to 0.121. the means wtable 4 summary of polymorphic sites nucleotide diversity per site global rate ratios and positivelynegatively selected codon sitesaana not applicable nt nucleotides 95 ci 95 confidence interval.values for the flaa and pyrh genes in all the strains included n  71 was calculated to be 0.12 whereas the mean w value for reca gene was 0.21. this indicates that there was a strong purifying selective pressure to conserve the function of these three proteins although reca was under slightly less selective pressure than flaa and pyrh.

these three cdss were selected based on the results obtained from our previous phylogenetic analysis of 20 t. denticola strains .we were able to obtain full-length gene sequence data for flaa reca and pyrh from 36 oral phylogroup 1 and 2 strains by searching the publically accessible nucleotide sequence depositories.

in addition a total of 35 phylogroup 1 and 2 oral treponeme strains from our curated collection were cultivated and full-length gene sequences were successfully obtained for these strains.

an additional objective was to analyze the phylogenetic differences between t. denticola and t. putidum strains which share many phenotypic characteristics and have high levels of 16s rrna gene sequence similarity .in our previous seven-gene mlsa of human oral t. denticola strains  our results indicated that the flaa reca and pyrh genes exhibited the highest levels of gene sequence diversity.

these authors noted that both of these human oral strains were highly distinct from all the nonoral animal strains analyzed.

a total of 71 human oral treponeme strains belonging to oral phylogroups 1 and 2 were included in our mlsa .

ib hot 667. this phylogeny-based taxonomic assignment was still strongly supported when 16s rrna data from relevant as-yet-uncultivated oral taxa were added .our data strongly support the long-held though not yet officially recognized designation of t. vincentii as a distinct species of oral treponeme since in both phylogenetic to  and sequence similarity-based  analyses the compo- nent strains n  11 consistently grouped together.

of the 75 oral treponeme species or species-level phylotypes currently listed in the web-accessible homd database   15 correspond to oral phylogroup 1 and 5 correspond to phylogroup 2. the vast majority of phylogroup 2 taxa commonly identified in the oral cavity e.g.

this comprises phy- logroup 1 n  23 and phylogroup 2 n  48 treponeme strains including all rele- vant american type culture collection reference strains.

this included 23 phy-logroup 1 strains and 48 phylogroup 2 strains listed in .

s1b in the supplemental material ml phylogenetic trees the seven treponema putidum strains were closely clustered and well separated from t. denticola strains.

