here we review evidence from studies conducted over the past five decades that support a key role for host-derived as well as commensal microbe-associated factors in providing protection against intestinal colonization and systemic infection with listeria monocytogenes.a brief overview of in vivo colonization by l. monocytogenesthe mechanisms of listeria invasion and spread within the mammalian host have been elucidated by elegant experimental studies mapping the trafficking of genetically tagged bacteria upon inoculation into mice and guinea pigs .

intra-rectal administration of listeria results in systemic infection of mice following dissemination via caudal lymph nodes  supporting the notion that the large intestine serves as a likely invasion portal.defense against listeria monocytogenes in the gastro-intestinal lumenhost-derived factorshost physical and chemical non-immune defensesmice and humans are overall highly resistant to l. monocytogenes infection via the oral route .

nature 2009 459 950-956.  jiang l. olesen i. andersen t. fang w. jespersen l. survival of listeria monocytogenes in simulated gastrointestinal system and transcriptional profiling of stress- and adhesion-related genes.

l. monocytogenes replicates in the gallbladder and re-accesses the intestinal lumen via the common bile duct upon gallbladder contraction .although most studies have focused on l. monocytogenes colonization and invasion of the small intestine several studies including our own have demonstrated that marked expansion and prolonged persistence of l. monocytogenes occurs in the large intestine of rodents as well as other model animals -.

furthermore treatment with cephalosporins a class of eta-lactam antibiotics to which l. monocytogenes is resistant was shown to worsen the effect of immune-suppressant drugs administered prior to oral l. monocytogenes inoculation by increasing both intestinal expansion and systemic spread of intragastrically inoculated bacteria .consistent with this previous work we recently showed that perturbation of the microbiota through antibiotic treatment dramatically increases luminal expansion of l. monocytogenes in mice rendering doses as low as 100 cfus capable of colonizing the entire intestinal tract and leading to systemic spread .

immun.2006 74 1819-1827.  dussurget o. cabanes d. dehoux p. lecuit m. buchrieser c. glaser p. cossart p. european listeria genome c. listeria monocytogenes bile salt hydrolase is a prfa-regulated virulence factor involved in the intestinal and hepatic phases of listeriosis.

glucose and nutrient concentrations affect the expression of a 104-kilodalton listeria adhesion protein in listeria monocytogenes.

we suggest that selected probiotic species derived from the microbiota may be developed for eventual clinical use to enhance resistance against l. monocytogenes infections.keywords listeria monocytogenes microbiota colonization resistanceintroductionlisteria monocytogenes is a gram-positive pathogen that infects humans and animals by ingestion of contaminated food and is associated with high rates of mortality .

while listeria outbreaks are common and generally attributable to highly contaminated foods most cases of listeriosis are sporadic .from the intestinal lumen l. monocytogenes can cross the epithelial layer via a variety of mechanisms including receptor-dependent entry into goblet and epithelial cells as well as trancytosis through m cells and penetration into underlying tissues -.

thus l. monocytogenes is widely distributed in thepathogens 2018 7 1 doienvironment and frequently contaminates foods making encounter with this pathogen a relatively common event for humans.although it is not widely appreciated listeria monocytogenes transiently and asymptomatically colonizes a sizable percentage of the human population with estimates varying between 1 and 5 across studies -.

activation of dedicated stress responses in listeria which allow bacterial survival in the intestinal lumen results from the enlistment of the alternative rna polymerase factor sigb and on the virulence regulator prfa both of which are induced upon passage through the mammalian gi tract .briefly upon ingestion and transit to the stomach and duodenum l. monocytogenes is first exposed to low ph gastric acids whose bactericidal activity is potent with respect to this particular pathogen .

resistance against low ph in the stomach and duodenum is achieved by l. monocytogenes through several mechanisms including import and decarboxylation of glutamate and catabolism of arginine to ornithine both resulting in consumption of protons and increases in intracellular ph -.upon passage to the duodenum listeria also utilizes several transporters to resist osmotic stress as salt concentration in the intestine is relatively high .

although mucosal antibodies are produced in response to l. monocytogenes infection  these are mostly not protective and intestinal clearance of listeria occurs with similar kinetics in wt and rag-deficient mice thus ruling out a prominent role for immunoglobulins in pathogen expulsion .

it is likely therefore that other mechanisms prevent uncontrolled growth of l. monocytogenes in the intestinal lumen.gut microbiotaevidences for a role of gut microbiota in protection against listeria monocytogenesthe intestinal microbiota can directly and indirectly influence most of the protective immune mechanisms mentioned above by providing tonic signals to the host's mucosal epithelial cells and the innate and adaptive immune systems.

indeed swabbing the mouth of l. monocytogenes-monoassociated gnotobiotic rats with a suspension of feces from conventional spf animals was sufficient to reduce listeria luminal density by about seven orders of magnitude within a day and to obtain complete pathogen clearance in a few weeks .

