for example using an untargeted metabolomics approach gerszten and colleagues recently reported that plasma levels of 2-aaa herald increased future risk of developing diabetes 3. moreover physiological levels of 2-aaa were shown to promote pancreatic beta cell insulin secretion and lower plasma glucose levels in murine models further suggesting potential involvement of 2-aaa as a modulator of glucose homeostasis 3. in earlier studies it was suggested that protein lysyl residue oxidation by myeloperoxidase mpo - generated halogenating oxidants 4-10 may serve as a possible mechanism for generation of 2-aaa as a post translational modification of protein and lipoprotein lysyl residues 11. subsequent studies by both our group and monnier and colleagues suggested not only mpo but also metal catalyzed oxidative processes may participate in 2-aaa formation 11-14. indeed protein bound 2-aaa has been reported to be enriched at sites known to harbor enhanced levels of protein oxidation products including high density lipoprotein recovered from human atherosclerotic lesions and insoluble collagen from aged skin particularly from subjects with diabetes or renal disease 11-14. interestingly while biosynthetic pathways for generating 2-aaa are not observedlin et al.page 3in mammals 2-aaa is a reported intermediate in the synthesis of lysine in certain fungi as well as in the biosynthesis of penicillin in b-lactam-producing fungi 15 16. it has also been reported as a metabolite produced from bacteria of the genus thermus 17. despite the association between 2-aaa levels and the risk for developing diabetes 3 and its potential links to both vascular disease and degenerative diseases of aging 11-14 neither direct demonstration of oxidative pathways that may participate in 2-aaa formation in vivo in mammals nor detailed investigation of the biochemical pathway and structural intermediates involved in 2-aaa formation from protein lysyl residues have been reported.wilson and colleagues recently reported that the major product of protein lysyl residue oxidation by reagent hypochlorous acid hocl is not 2-aaa but instead the unusual adduct lysine nitrile lyscn 2-amino-5-cyanopentanoic acid 18. while these purely in vitro studies used a high hocl relative to target protein lysyl residue ratio they reported up to 80 yield of lyscn when a maximal hocl to target ratio is used 100 to 600-fold excess 18. nitriles in general can be acid labile 19 and acid hydrolysis was used in all including our own prior reported studies detecting protein-bound 2-aaa enrichment in tissues 11-14. these provocative results suggesting lyscn as a potential hocl generated oxidation product of protein lysyl residues therefore raised concerns to us of whether protein-bound 2-aaa is even a post translational oxidation product that exists in vivo and whether 2-aaa is formed by the mpoh2o2cl- system in vivo.in this paper we report on our pursuit to elucidate the products and reaction mechanisms of protein lysyl residue oxidation by hocl 6 20-25 mpo-generated chlorinating oxidants 4 5 7-10 and activated leukocytes both in vitro and in animal models employing wild type wt and mpo knockout mpo-ko mice.

the existence of these two compounds in the oxidation reaction strongly supports our proposed pathway for ac-2aaa formation.human serum albumin lysyl residue oxidation by hocl and the mpoh2o2cl- system next we used human serum albumin hsa as a target protein model system to further investigate lysine oxidation by hocl or mediated via the action of human mpo figure 7.human neutrophils oxidize protein lysyl residues forming both 2-aaa major and lyscn minor as productsmpo is one of the most abundant proteins in neutrophils 4 47. during neutrophil activation at sites of inflammation mpo is released and uses h2o2 from respiratory bursts and physiological levels of chloride to make hocl 4 47. we therefore next sought to test whether activated isolated human neutrophils can employ the mpo system to oxidize protein lysyl residues and generate 2-aaa and lyscn.

of further note however as far as we are aware no studies to date have reported detection of protein-bound lyscn in vivo.quantification of 2-aaa and lyscn in biological samplesto address the issue of lyscn conversion to 2-aaa during sample preparation we used enzymatic proteolytic digestion to break down the protein into its constituent amino acids under conditions where both 2-aaa and lyscn are stable.

similarly a significant increase in protein-bound lyscn is formed in wt mice injected with tg and zm p0.001 but not in mpo-ko mice figure 10b.moreover while at baseline similar protein content of 2-aaa and lyscn in peritoneal lavage proteins were noted the amount of lyscn produced during inflammation was approximately half that observed for 2-aaa.mpo oxidation is a source of free 2-aaa production in vivowe also examined whether mpo can generate free 2-aaa in vivo.

in additional controlstudies we confirmed that each component of the mpoh2o2cl- system is required forhsa lysine oxidation to produce protein-bound 2-aaa and lyscn h2o2  hsa  0.25 figure 8.lin et al.page 26figure 7. protein bound 2-aaa and lyscn formation requires protein lysyl residue exposure to the complete mpoh2o2cl- systemhsa 1 mgml 15 mm was exposed to the complete mpoh2o2cl- system or to theindicated components of the mpo system.

addition of catalase a scavenger of h2o2 dramatically reduced the production of both 2-aaa and lyscn and addition of methionine a scavenger of hocl 24 48 49 also diminished both 2-aaa and lyscn formation consistent withlin et al.page 11neutrophils employing the mpoh2o2cl- system in generation of these post translational modifications of lysine figure 9.mpo forms 2-aaa and lyscn in vivo at sites of inflammationwe further investigated whether mpo is involved in the formation of 2-aaa and lyscn at sites of inflammation in vivo.

further quantitation of each of the products formed under different molar ratios of oxidant to target figures 2-4 is entirely consistent with the stoichiometry of the reactions shown in figure 12. it is of interest to note that in previous studies we demonstrated that chlorine gas cl2 can be produced by the mpoh2o2cl- system of neutrophils 9. cl2 is in equilibrium with hocl in water and was directly detected by mass spectrometry in headspace gas above activated neutrophils 9. we therefore include the hypothetical pathway involving cl2 reaction with protein lysyl residues leading directly to lysine monochloramine and dichloramine derivatives as yet another possible pathway envisioned at high ratios of oxidant to target protein ne-lys groups for generation of lyscn figure 12.our studies reveal that prior analyses that reported detection of protein-bound 2-aaa in tissues likely overestimated 2-aaa formation due to acid catalyzed hydrolysis of protein- bound lyscn into 2-aaa.

the transitions monitored were mass-to-charge ratio mz 147-84 for lysine 162-98 and 162-55 for 2-aaa 143-97 and 143-54 for lyscn and 155-90 for 13c615n2lys and finally 165-101 for d3-2aaa.statistical analysisthe statistical significance of differences was determined using the kruskal-wallis test by ranks one-way anova on ranks 36. p values less than 0.05 were considered statistically significant.lin et al.page 8resultsconventional acid or base protein hydrolysis methods convert lyscn into 2-aaaas noted above debate exists in the field of lysyl residue oxidation chemistry.

data points shown represent duplicate analyses of a sample from an individual aorta reported as mmol oxidation productmol lys of either 2-aaa or lyscn as indicated and the bar represents mean - s.d.lin et al.page 31figure 12.schematic illustration of reaction pathways for the formation of 2-aaa and lyscn by mpoh2o2cl- hocl oxidation of protein-bound lysine.

figure 12ab shows that protein bound 2-aaa and lyscn content in atherosclerotic lesions are significantly higher 2-fold p0.001 than in normal aortic tissue moreover the 2-aaa content in human aortic tissues observed were more than 10-fold higher p0.005 than that for lyscn.discussionour present studies explore the chemistry and the stable terminal products of protein lysyl residue oxidation by mpo generated chlorinating oxidants in vitro and in vivo.

our studies further demonstrate substantial enrichment of both 2-aaa and lyscn within human aortic atherosclerotic plaque a site previously shown to harbor enriched content of both mpo and alternative mpo-generated oxidation products5 10 26-29 and elucidate the reaction pathway responsible for mpo-generated chlorinating oxidants in forming these lysine oxidation products.materials and methodsmaterialsna-boc-l-lysine and na-acetyl-l-lysine used as surrogates for protein lysyl residues were purchased from chem-impex international inc. wood dale illinois.

additional control studies exposing lyscn and 2-aaa to the same proteolytic conditions showed that both compounds are stable with 99-2 and 102-4 recovery respectively.lin et al.page 9the mechanism of na-protected lysyl residue oxidation by hoclto understand the chemistry and clarify the products of posttranslational modification of protein lysyl residues by mpo we initially investigated lysine oxidation by the major mpo- generated oxidant hocl.

recent studies suggest lyscn may be the major stable posttranslational modification of lysine formed in vivo based upon in vitro studies examining proteins exposed to excess hocl 18. we therefore first sought to investigate whether prior studies used protein hydrolysis methods that would accurately measure lyscn and 2-aaa in tissues.

under the conditions employed for the assay the limit of detection sn of peak 31 of lyscn was 40 nm.human aortic lesions are enriched in both 2-aaa and lyscnin the final series of studies we sought to test whether 2-aaa and lyscn are present in normal human aorta and whether levels of these oxidation products are enriched in aortic atherosclerotic lesions.

1 of the hocl added of the stable end products oflysine oxidation monitored while lyscn becomes the major product at a higher molar ratio the yield of lyscn is approx.

