our animal model of intestinal fibrosis may have its own limitations.the observed increase in neutrophils in the heterotopic transplantation model may be affected by immune response to intestinal grafts rejection ischemia or hypoxia which contributes to fibrosis in the animal model but not necessarily to fibrosis in ibd patients.differences in the microbiome are likely to influence development of intestinal fibrosis.

to determine the relevance of myd88 in the development of fibrosis myd88-- and gfp-tg mice were used as both donors and recipients for isogeneic transplantation in our heterotopic animal model of intestinal fibrosis.

therefore myd88 deficiency reduces intestinal inflammation at least with respect to mmp9 expression and neutrophil infiltration whereas development of fibro- sis is similar in grafts of both myd88 deficient and wildtype mice.discussionin this study we investigated the role of myd88 in the development and progression of fibrosis in an animal model of intestinal fibrosis.

this suggests that intestinal fibrosis does not require persistent microbal stimula- tion and could be independent from the myd88 pathways from a certain time point onwards.there are also conflicting reports on the importance of the myd88-dependent signalling in the developmentof fibrosis in other organs.

in contrast in other stud- ies using different models of fibrosis myd88 signalling is less relevant for the development and progression of fibrosis.

excessive tissue repair promotes fibrosis and impairs gastrointestinal function and is a common clinical problem in patients with ibd.the data presented here suggest that although inflammation is reduced by myd88 deficiency the develop- ment of intestinal fibrosis is uncoupled from myd88 signalling.

intestinal fibrosis is reduced by early elimination of inflammation in a mouse model of ibd impact of a top- down approach to intestinal fibrosis in mice.

openreceived 31 august 2017accepted 29 november 2017 published xx xx xxxxmyeloid differentiation primary response gene myd 88 signalling is not essential for intestinal fibrosis developmentc.

b. rossel4 g. rogler1 b. misselwitz1  m. hausmann1dysregulation of the immune response to microbiota is associated with inflammatory bowel disease ibd which can trigger intestinal fibrosis.

myd88 is a key component of microbiota signalling but its influence on intestinal fibrosis has not been clarified.

in the mouse model of fibrosis collagen deposition and transforming growth factor-beta 1 tgf-b1 expression was equal in myd88 and myd88-- indicating that myd88 was not essential for fibrogenesis.

matrix metalloproteinase mmp9 expression was significantly decreased in grafts transplanted into myd88-- recipients compared to myd88 recipients 0.2 - 0.1 vs. 153.0 - 23.1 respectively p 0.05 similarly recruitment of neutrophils was significantly reduced 16.3 - 4.5 vs.25.4 - 3.1 respectively p 0.05. development of intestinal fibrosis appears to be independent of myd88 signalling indicating a minor role of bacterial wall compounds in the process which is in contrast to published concepts and theories.

development of fibrosis appears to be uncoupled from acute inflammation.innate immunity plays a pivotal role in ibd with its two entities crohn's disease cd and ulcerative colitis uc.

while the triggering of fibrosis seems to require inflammation as a prerequisite step the mechanisms involved in the pro- gression of fibrogenesis may be distinct.

administration of potent anti-inflammatory agents effectively treats inflammatory flares but at present there is no specific treatment option for patients with recurrent intes- tinal fibrosis.

