for example nc - 1 mgml where nc is the formulation for which 200 mg of oleic acid was used in the prepa- ration and 1 mgml is the theoretical concentration of oleic acid used in the tests.for evaluation of the action of the nanocapsules on the soil bacteria and the maize plants labeling was based on the concentration mgm2 of neem oil indicated for field applications 0.12 mgm2 together with the concen- tration of oleic acid present in tests using the nc15 nc10 and nc formulations.

these nanocapsules only contained oleic acid 200 mg so the results were indica- tive of toxicity caused by the oleic acid.

considering the possible toxicity of oleic acid and the secondary metabolites present in neem oil their combined effects could provide a reason for the very low ic50 values found for the nc10 nanocapsules because this formulation contained the greatest amount of oleic acid and the smallest amount of azadirachtin leading to high cytotoxic activity.comet assays.

hence the use of oleic acid as a complement in the nanocapsules was not a good strategy since the nanocapsules that only contained neem oil showed lower toxicity.

another contributing factor could have been increased viability in the presence of azadirachtin the main com- pound present in neem oil as found previously in viability assays employing mouse 3t6 fibroblast cells.hence it appears that in the case of the nanocapsules containing neem oil a higher concentration of oleic acid and a lower concentration of azadirachtin could have resulted in higher toxicity.the results for the hela and 3t3 cells showed that the former presented lower ic50 values and were more sen- sitive to the nanocapsules containing neem oil compared to the 3t3 cells table .

it is therefore likely that the ic50 values obtained here for the nc15 and nc10 nanocapsules as well as the results reported in the literature were influenced not only by azadirachtin but also by its interaction with the other active components of neem oil and the oleic acid used in the preparation of the nanocapsules.

in the case of the nc20 nanocapsules which did not contain oleic acid there was only interaction between azadirachtin and the other metabolites present in neem oil.the greater viability of the cells exposed to the nc20 nanocapsules could be explained by a possible contri- bution of azadirachtin to cell proliferation.

cytotoxicity and genotoxicity results showed an increase in toxicity of the oleic acid  neem formulations according to the amount of oleic acid used.

the greatest resistance was shown by the hela cells which presented an ic50 of 4.75 mgml oleic acid while the v79-4 cells were most sensitive with ic50 of 0.12 mgml oleic acid.

however the distribution of the different types of organisms varied according to the treatment with the greatest differences relative to the control for the treatments using formulations containing higher amounts of oleic acid and the treatment using equal proportions of oleic acid and neem oil.

after the contact period the roots were washed with distilled water immersed in carnoy fixing solution ethanol and acetic acid at a ratio of 31 vv and stored in a refrigerator.the roots were prepared by first washing with distilled water followed by acid hydrolysis for 9 min using 1 moll hydrochloric acid at a constant temperature of 60 degc.

a possible explanation was the likely toxicity of oleic acid used as a complement in the preparation of the nc10 and nc15 nanocapsules which has been described previously in studies using blood cell lines-.

the 3t3 cells showed greater damage when exposed to the nanocapsules containing only oleic acid and similar behavior was observed for the hela cells.

the absence of an effect of the nanoformulations without neem oil used as negative controls indicates that the inert materials used in the encapsulation process did not cause adverse effects.it is notable that when there was only neem oil or oleic acid in the nanocapsules they did not impair gas exchange of the maize leaves.

however when there was a higher oleic acid concentration together with neem oil in the nanocapsules they became phytotoxic as observed for the nc10 and at lower intensity the nc15 treat- ments.

