Thus reduced dispersal in the soil may have lowered the probability for host-specific soil pathogens to accumulate potentially leading to an underestimation of soil feedback strength.Interestingly we found a significant negative correlation between average pairwise PSF and PPF estimates among spe- cies where there was a tradeoff in relative growth responses to con- vs. heterospecific microbiota for soil vs. phyllosphere inocula Fig.

In addition we predicted that 2 soil microbiota would also have strong negative feedback effects due to the constant exposure of roots to soil inoculum and high degree of dispersal limitation in the soil.

Contrary to our original prediction average pairwise soil feedbacks for all four species were consistently less nega- tive and less significant than the average pairwise phyllosphere feedbacks under our experimental conditions even though the direct fitness effect of live soil inocula on plant hosts was strongly positive Fig.

2015 and similarly focuses on measuring the net effects of phyllosphere communities on plant-plant interactions rather than characterising microbial community makeup.The goal of this research was to determine the fitness conse- quences of the phyllosphere community on hosts and to com- pare these effects with those of the soil community.

Lastly we predicted that 3 the combined effects of PSF and PPF would be magnified under field relative to greenhouse conditions where plants are simultaneously exposed to both soil and phyllosphere inocula as well as a wide range of natural stressors.MATERIALS AND METHODSTo address our predictions we established three independent experiments to quantify rhizosphere and phyllosphere feed- backs across four plant species.

In Experiment 1 soil feedbacks soil microbiota were 'sourced' from adult donor plants in the common garden and inoculated into the pots of experimental plants a.

Soil inoculum was added at 10 vv to the sterile background soil and the pots capped with another small layer of sterile background soil Fig.

For the sterile control treatments all remaining com- mon garden soil was bulked and sterilised by autoclaving for 4 h once to keep the timing of the control treatments simi- lar to the live soil treatments.

Specifically VM exhibited the lowest net benefit to treatment with live soil relative to sterile soil Fig.

In a third experiment we tested the combined effects of soil and phyllosphere feedback under field conditions.

