however many re- searchers studying the microbiome lack resources or specialized skills for managing and analyzing the large multi-dimensional data- sets associated with metagenomic analyses.to address this challenge a team at the national institutes of health nih developed nephele ne-feh-lee an analysis platform that co-locates microbiome data and analysis tools in a cloud com- puting environment.

nephele simplifies the transfer analysis and visualization of large microbiome datasets and offers standardized pipelines of common microbiome analysis tools and referencepublished by oxford university press 2017. this work is written by us government employees and is in the public domain in the us.1n.weber et al.databases to process amplicon-based e.g.

nephele is a novel microbiome data analysis platform that leverages the amazon cloud and empowers researchers who do not have ready access to high- performance computing environments--or the support personnel andor budgets to manage them--by providing all prerequisites for working with microbiome sequence data in an on-demand pay- as-you-go model.

bioinformatics 2017 1-3 doi 10.1093bioinformaticsbtx617advance access publication date 3 october 2017applications notesequence analysisnephele a cloud platform for simplified standardized and reproducible microbiome data analysisnick weber david liou jennifer dommer philip macmenamin mariam quinones ian misner andrew j. oler joe wan lewis kimmeghan coakley mccarthy samuel ezeji karlynn noble and darrell e. hurtbioinformatics and computational biosciences branch office of cyber infrastructure and computational biology national institute of allergy and infectious diseases national institutes of health bethesda md 20892 usato whom correspondence should be addressed.

associate editor bonnie bergerreceived on march 23 2017 revised on september 20 2017 editorial decision on september 22 2017 accepted on september 26 2017abstractmotivation widespread interest in the study of the microbiome has resulted in data proliferation and the development of powerful computational tools.

however many scientific researchers lack the time training or infrastructure to work with large datasets or to install and use command line tools.results the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases niaid has created nephele a cloud-based microbiome data analysis platform with standardized pipelines and a simple web interface for transforming raw data into biological insights.

nephele integrates common micro- biome analysis tools as well as valuable reference datasets like the healthy human subjects cohort of the human microbiome project hmp.

nephele is built on the amazon web services cloud which provides centralized and automated storage and compute capacity thereby reducing the burden on researchers and their institutions.availability and implementation and contact introductionthe human microbiome or the collective genomes of humans and our microbial symbionts has been described as a major frontier in biomedical research .

concomitant increases are occurring in microbiome data generation as well as in the development of computational tools to performdata analysis   .

nephele allows users to configure ana- lysis steps such as which reference database to use to compare mi- crobial sequences and parameters such as specific threshold values for identification of operational taxonomic units in classifications in order to make microbiome analysis more accessible to the re- search community.nephele shares some common elements with other metagenom- ics analysis tools and services.

also like the cloud virtual resource or clovr nephele le- verages virtual machine images and cloud computing capabilities to analyze microbiome data .

typical job outputs include biom files heat maps bar plots and taxonomy tables among other reports and visualizations.nephele also offers users the ability to compare experimental datato the 16s rrna amplicon datasets that were collected in the first phase of nih human microbiome project    which have been made available by aws as part of their public datasets initiative see .

therefore to analyze 2.5 gb of data using this pipe- line and the default nephele instance type c3.4xlarge which at the time of this writing costs 0.84 per hour the total expected cost would be 3.36. on average whole metagenome assembly jobs using nephele's a5-miseq-based pipeline require 6.9 h of compute time per gb while functional annotation jobs using nephele's biobakery-based pipeline take 4.9 h per gb.nephele is freely accessible to the global microbiome research community.

by supporting greater adoption and improved efficiency in micro- biome research resources like nephele can facilitate broader partici- pation--and ideally new discoveries--in microbiome research.acknowledgementsthis work was supported in part by the office of science management and operations osmo of the niaid.

2016 metagenomics metatranscriptomics and metabolomics approaches for microbiome analysis.

