doi 10.1002pbc.26425resear ch ar ticle pediatric blood the american society of pediatric hematologyoncologyneuroblastoma causes alterations of the intestinal microbiome gut hormones inflammatory cytokines and bile acid compositionchristoph castellani1georg singer1margarita kaiser1thomas kaiser1 jianfeng huang2daniela sperl3karl kashofer2guenter fauler4 barbara guertl-lackner2gerald hofler2holger till11department of paediatric and adolescentsurgery medical university of graz graz aus- tria2institute of pathology medical university ofgraz graz austria3department of paediatrics and adolescencemedicine medical university of graz graz austria4clinical institute of medical and chemicallaboratory diagnostics medical university of graz graz austriacorrespondence georg singer department of paediatric and adolescent surgery medical university of graz auenbruggerplatz 34 8036 graz austria.email 1introduction abbreviations agrp agouty-related protein gip glucose-dependent insulinotrope hormone glp-1 glucagon-like peptide 1 il interleukin inf- interferon gamma iqr interquartile range lc lithocholic acid mcp-1 monocyte chemotactic protein 1 m-csf monocyte colony-stimulating factor nb neuroblastoma npy neuropeptide y pp pancreatic polypeptide pyy peptide yy sg sham group tac tumor-associated cachexia tg tumor group tnf- tumor necrosis factor alpha udc ursodeoxycholic acid wat white adipose tissueneuroblastoma nb represents the most common extracranial solid tumor in childhood.1 in 2010 the age-adjusted incidence in the usa was 10.7 cases per million persons aged 0-14 years.2 due to the bio- logic heterogeneity of nb its clinical behavior ranges from sponta- neous regression and near uniform survival to aggressive metastaticdisease with a high risk of fatal outcome.3 besides other factors undernourishment was found to have an important impact on the patient survival rates.4recently the metabolic competition for nutrients between tumor and patient has emerged as an important research area.

to the best of our knowl- edge this is the first study reporting disturbances of the ileal micro- biome inflammation and intestinal hormones in a murine nb model.similar to tumor models of adult cancer we found alterations in the intestinal microbiome in tumor animals.11 although the differences were not statistically significant the ileal contents in this investiga- tion showed a clear trend toward decreased firmicutes and increased bacteroidetes beferribacteres and tenericutes in tumor-bearing animals.regarding the microbiota on the species level however our findings differ from reports examining other tumors.

mice received four sub- peritoneal depots of 500000 tumor cells per depot tumor group tg n  8 or four depots of 0.1 ml culture medium each sham group sg n  8. the abdomen was closed with continuous sutures and the mice were allowed to recover on the heat plate.mice were weighed on a weekly basis and tumor growth was observed.

how- ever an investigation of cell cultures performed by goldberg et al.25ta b l e 3 analysis of the microbiome of the ileal contentshas shown that lc induced intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic cell death in nb cell lines while making cultures of normal human neurons resis- tant to such cell death.similar to the effect of lc on healthy cells the tertiary bile acid udc has been shown to exert antiapoptotic effects by reducing reac- tive oxygen species and protecting the mitochondrial membranes.26-28 additionally anti-inflammatory effects via the inhibition of nuclear fac- tor kappa b mediated tnf- secretion have been demonstrated for udc.2729 moreover udc substitution in a rat model of hepatoma had no effect on tumor growth but reduced lipolysis and weight loss and improved the survival rate.30 although more research will be required reduced lc and udc levels as seen in our tg may be associated with increased inflammation cachexia and tumor progression.in addition to tissue wasting and increased energy metabolism reduced appetite seems to be an important factor of the negative energy balance associated with tac.31 neuropeptide y npy plays an important role in appetite regulation.

similar to our experimental model cancer patients with tac have decreased serum leptin levels.35 regarding tac however lep- tin levels were shown to be independent of the tumor and to depend only on the amount of wat.7 these findings support our data with reduced wat and low leptin levels in the tg.

20138e55817.klein gl petschow bw shaw al weaver e. gut barrier dysfunction and microbial translocation in cancer cachexia a new therapeutic tar- get.

the possibility to modify the intestinal microbiota by pre- or probiotics may have a huge impact on anti-cancer therapy in the future and therefore warrants further research.acknowledgments we would like to extend our gratitude to univ.-prof. dr. christian urban for his support and the steirische kinderkrebshilfe for funding this project.furthermore we would like to thank silvia schauer and anna kuesz the two medical technicians who helped to realize this project.conflict of interest the authors declare that there is no conflict of interest.references park hj moon ek yoon jy et al.

2011267-77.al-zhoughbi w huang j paramasivan gs et al.

201525128-131.qin j li r raes j et al.

20142016498-16517.bindels lb beck r schakman o et al.

20127e37971.bindels lb neyrinck am salazar n et al.

201510e0131009.bindels lb porporato p dewulf em et al.

20121071337-1344.das sk eder s schauer s et al.

2011333233-238.gorkiewicz g thallinger gg trajanoski s et al.

20137361-367.fouladiun m korner u bosaeus i et al.

