The recognition that the lungs are as populated with microorganisms as other mucosal surfaces provides the opportunity to reconsider the mechanisms and management of lung infections.

The consideration of how diverse commensal microbial communities resist exogenous infection12-14 has had an enormous influence on understanding and treating bowel diseases15 and it is timely now to reconsider received wisdom for the management of lung infections.

The airways and lung can be affected in a number of different ways by bacterial infection as shown clockwise starting from the top right lobar pneumonia affects a whole lobe of the lung and may spill into the surrounding pleura two thin layers of tissue that protect the lungs and allow them to move during breathing.

The chronic lung diseases bronchiectasis and cystic fibrosis are associated with chronic resist- ant infections with abnormal bronchial morphology these infections are caused by H. influenzaeS.

The limited number of phyla and the consistency of the oropharyngeal and lower-airway microbiota between multiple individuals and across studies1030-32 indicate that the airways are not simply passive recipients of inhaled microbiota and provide strong evidence for host selection.

The aetiology of exacerbations encompasses host immune responses as well as complex changes in the viral fungal and bacterial communities19.

The carriage of S. pneumoniae and H. influenzae by a substantial proportion of healthy children indicates that colonization per se does not cause disease.

The important factors that may cause the shift from colonization to invasion and overt disease BOX 1 have not been extensively studied but may include concomitant viral infections exposureto cigarette smoke and environmental pollution and progressive growth over the host microbiota40.Interestingly different bacterial pathogens are associated with the chronic infections that accompany cystic fibrosis and bronchiectasis.

The difficulty in isolating fungi by culture almost certainly means that detection rates do not reflect the prevalence of potentially pathogenic species in clinical specimens.

The technology for culture on agar plates was invented in 1880 in Berlin54.

