moreover it is demon- strated that ifn-g is the most potent inducer of tg2 and thatits synergism with tnf-a contributed to exacerbate cd .however a high tg2 expression is not unique to cd and anti-tgantibodies are often observed in other inflammatory conditions such as inflammatory bowel diseases such as crohn's disease and ulcerative disease and juvenile diabetes.tissue transglutaminase 2 is particularly notable for being the autoantigen that may contribute to intensify the inflamma- tory process in cd patients by destruction of villous extracel- lular matrix and as a target for intestinal villous epithelial cell destruction .

autoantibody reactivity to tg2 is a specific and sensitive marker highly useful in aiding diagnosis and follow-up of cd but the mechanism by which tg2 becomes the main autoantigen in cd is not yet understood  and we will discuss this point subsequently.finally since recent evidence based on global epidemiological and scientific studies has suggested that the risk of some con- ditions such as obesity inflammatory bowel disease cancer and also some autoimmune diseases may be influenced by the microbioma  we will discuss the role of microbiome in cd pathogenesis.gluten-specific cd4 t-cells high producer of ifng and low producer of bach2it is widely accepted that fragments of gliadin one of the main component of gluten present in food pass through the epithelial barrier of the small intestine and enter the lamina propria wherethey are deaminated by tissue tg2 and then linked to specific hla-class ii dq2 or dq8 molecules.

gut 2010 59311-9. dode re v simula mp notarpietro a canzonieri v cannizzaro r toffoli g. do gliadin and tissue transglutaminase mediate ppar downregulation in intesti- nal cells of patients with coeliac disease gut 2010 591730-1. dopalazzo c nicaise-roland p palazzo e. rituximab an effective treatment for rheumatologic and digestive symptoms of celiac disease joint bone spine 2012 79422-3. dohiepe f radbruch a. plasma cells as an innovative target in autoimmune disease with renal manifestations.

4137. doi abbreviations cd celiac disease hla human leukocyte antigen ig immunoglobulin rna-seq next-generation rna- sequencing ifn-g interferon-gamma tg2 tissue transglutaminase 2 il interleukin mhcs major histocompatibility complexes ab autoantibody bcr b-cell receptor cdr complementary regions ivh ivk variable immunoglobulin heavy and kappa chains respectively pad peptidyl arginine deaminases ppar peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor pcs plasma cells tcrs t-cell receptors scfas short-chain fatty acids nmr nuclear magnetic resonance.that cd occurs in genetically predisposed individuals carrying the dq2 and dq8 hla haplotypes a condition that is necessary but not sufficient for cd development since these molecules are widely 25-40 distributed among the population but not all the individuals had the disease .

although the mechanisms of interaction among overall these components are not yet fully understood recent proteomics and molecular studies had shed some lights in the pathogenic role of tissue transglutaminase 2 in cd and in the alteration of the intestinal barrier function induced by host microbiota.keywords celiac disease b-cell immunoglobulin transglutaminase microbiomaintroductionceliac disease cd is characterized by small intestinal mucosal injury and nutrient malabsorption .

intracellular tg2 is enzymatically inactive and for reasons that are not understood tg2 is transportedextracellularly where it become enzymatically active.

tg2 expression is regulated by several post-translational mechanisms but the mechanism of its regulation is not completely understood.it is fully demonstrated that tg2 is upregulated in the mucosa of the small intestine during active cd.

the tg2gliadin complexes might provide the generationof the tg2 autoantibodies but the exact mechanism by which tg2 becomes the main autoantigen in cd has not been settled.

in this section we aim to summarizing the last hypothesis for the generation of tg2 autoantibodies in cd.to understand the ig-tg2 interaction it is first necessary to understand how the conformational status of tg2 influences its catalyticactivity.tg2isreferredtobeabifunctionalenzymeowing to its ability to catalyze a ca2-dependent protein cross-linking activity and a ca2-independent gtp hydrolysis  .

by using the x-ray crystallography and small-angle x-ray scattering approaches the detailed structural interaction between self-antibody and tg2 protein has been evidenced and then confirmed by using the generation of single aminoacid mutations in the tg2 epitope followed by the measure of the protein-protein interaction .

the complex with ig could protect the tg2 enzyme activity from the endosomal oxi- dation that would usually block the tg2 activity.

moreover tg2 activation into the intestinal cells of patients with cd concomitantly associated with a decreased in the ppar-gamma-mediated anti-inflammatory activity ppar- gamma anti-inflammatory peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma .based on this last knowledge tg2 autoantibodies and clonal b-cells expansion and not only t-cells had been considered important players in cd pathogenesis leading to the develop- ment of novel therapies based on b-cell depletion.

.anyway at present it is clear that the ig response against tg2 is dependent of tg2 in an active conformation and of a dietary gluten exposure.

it is observed that the frequency of tg2-iga pcs and tg2 memory b-cells decreased even if they did not completely disappear in patients who take a gluten-free diet and that the tg2 conformation may be modulated by the release of a large quantity of ifn-u and reactive oxygen species in conditions of stress and inflammation .

 1 2 and 21 immunopatologia e biomarcatori oncologicibio-proteomics facility cro aviano national cancer institute aviano italy2 oncological gastroenterology cro aviano national cancer institute aviano italyedited by arun chaudhury gim foundation united statesreviewed byshashank kraleti university of arkansas for medical sciences united statessumit fogla william beaumont hospitalunited statescorrespondencevalli de re specialty sectionthis article was submitted togastroenterology a section of the journal frontiers in medicinereceived 19 march 2017accepted 27 july 2017published 31 august 2017celiac disease cd is an autoimmune and multisystem gluten-related disorder that causes symptoms involving the gastrointestinal tract and other organs.

