in 2 adolescent studies  increases in bone calcium accrual amounted to about 40 gd which is equivalent to a projected 2 increase in net bone calcium annually.scf may not only help increase calcium absorption in younger individuals but may help increase net calcium retention in those who have reached peak bone mass.

prebiotic fiber consumption has been associated with shifts in gut microbial communities typically in fiber fermenters .

br j nutr 112446-456 2014.whisner cm martin br nakatsu ch story ja macdonald-clarke cj mccabe ld mccabe gp weaver cm soluble corn fiber increases calcium absorption associated with shifts in the gut micro- biome.

3 218-222perspectivesnew frontiers in fibers innovative and emerging research on the gut microbiome and bone healthtaylor c. wallace phd cfs facn massimo marzorati phd lisa spence phd rd connie m. weaver phd and patricia s. williamson phdadepartment of nutrition and food studies george mason university national osteoporosis foundation think healthy group llc fairfax virginia bprodigest brussels belgium ctate  lyle hoffman estates illinois ddepartment of nutrition science women's global health institute purdueuniversity west lafayette indianaarticle historyreceived 1 august 2016 accepted 2 november 2016keywordsfiber gut microbiome fermentation bone calcium absorptionintroductionthere is general agreement within the fields of food nutrition and medical sciences that an individual's diet and lifestyle choices can substantially predispose or protect against many chronic diseases including osteoporosis and low bone mass also commonly known as osteopenia.

though the in vitro approach is a use- ful tool to evaluate the potential impact of an ingredient in areas of the gi tract that are not easily accessible final valida- tion has to occur in in vivo trials as discussed in the next section.role of prebiotic fibers in modifying calcium absorption and bone indices via changes in the microbiotathe influence of prebiotics on increasing mineral absorption and enhancing bone properties through shifts in gut microbiota offers a strategy to improving calcium nutrition and bone health.

adding small amounts of fibers 2.5-5.0 gserving to foods traditionally low in dietary fiber could help individuals meet their fiber require- ments without exceeding calorie needs  which is a real- istic and simple way to address global public health concerns.

dietary fiber is a shortfall nutrient that is underconsumed across the population more than 95 of the population has fiber intakes below the adequate intake .

phoenix az qualtrics 2015.howlett jf betteridge va champ m craig sa meheust a jones jm the definition of dietary fiber--discussions at the ninth vahouny fiber symposium building scientific agreement.

am j clin nutr 10155-64 2015.mobley ar jones jm rodriguez j slavin j zelman km identifying practical solutions to meet america's fiber needs proceedings from the food  fiber summit.

the same fiber shifted the gut micro- biome by modulating the bacteroidetes firmicutes ratio increasing the relative abundance of bacteroidetes 13 2 and altered several functional pathways i.e.

j funct foods 20369-379 2016.marzorati m soluble corn fiber is fermented in the distal colon lead- ing to positive modulation of the microbiota and the gut wall.

it is well known that nutrients such as calcium and vitamin d play an active role in bone health throughout the life span however the function andor synergies that many other nutrients have on bone are still emerging.dietary fiber has been identified in the 2015-2020 dietary guidelines for americans as a shortfall nutrient that is under- consumed across the population and a public health concern because its absence from the diet has been shown to contribute to an increased level of health risk i.e.

it has beensuggested that fiber after being fermented could indirectly improve calcium absorption by several mechanisms reduc- tion of environmental ph production of specific short- chain fatty acids i.e.

in postmenopausal women the prebiotic fiber scf 0 10 and 20 g fiberd improved bone calcium retention in a dose-response manner with little to no side effects e.g.

br j nutr 1101292-1303 2013.jakeman sa henry c martin b mccabe g mccabe l jackson g peacock m weaver cm soluble corn fiber increases bone calcium retention in postmenopausal women in a dose-dependent manner a randomized crossover trial.

