this review was intended to provide new perspectives and strategies for future diabetes research and product.introductionin july 2015 the international diabetes federation idf released the seventh edition of idf diabetes map which showed that china had approximately 1.096 million diabetes cases in 2015 ranking the highest in the world.

according to the current development trend the number of diabetes cases in china is projected to reach 150.7 million in 2040. the inci- dence of diabetes is estimated to increase by 69 in develop- ing countries and 20 in developed countries from 2010 to 2030. thus schemes in preventing and treating diabetes are warranted.

here we have proposed that many herbal monomers and formulae improve glucose homeostasis and diabetes through the bmid axis b represents gut microbiota m means mucosal immunity i represents inflammation and d represents diabetes.

currently chinese herbs for the prevention and treatment of diabetes and its minimal complications are considered advantageous and a large number of evidence- based clinical studies have confirmed these effects -modern medical technology provides a new way and direction for the prevention and treatment of diabetes.

and subsequently reduces the level of inflammation and improves glucose intolerance the metagenomic analysis revealed that patients with type 2 diabetes had moderate levels of gut microbiota dysbiosis characterized by the decrease in the abundance of some universal butyrate-producing bacteria and the increase in the abundance of some bacteria which reduce sulfate and antioxidant stress a human study showed that the number of faecalibacterium prausnitzii which was associ- ated with the production of short-chain fatty acids and butyrate is increased gut microbiota of diabetic patients and mice changed significantly indicating that reversing this change may reduce the incidence of insulin resistance and diabetes.disorder of mucosal immunity leads to diabetes.

the current results suggest that bbr can regulate the intestinal microflora restore the intes- tinal barrier reduce metabolic endotoxemia and systemic inflammation and improve gut peptide levels in high-fat diet-fed rats it indicates that bbr is possibly an effective agent for the treatment of obesity and diabetes a study showed that bbr improved metabolic disorders induced by high-fat diets by modulating the gut-intestinal-brain axis including changes in the distribution and diversity of microbes elevation of serum glucagon-like peptide-1 and neuropeptide y decrease in orexin a and upregulation of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor mrna bbr reduces inflammatory response in diabetes mellitus.

in addition ggqld improves glucose metabolism disor- der increases the insulin sensitivity index and protects pancreatic b cells playing a positive role in the treatment of diabetes -ggqld improves diabetes.

the safety and effectiveness of tm81 a chinese herbal medicine in the treatment of type 2 diabetes a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial diabetes obesity  metabolism vol.

e. shaw r. a. sicree and p. z. zimmet global estimates of the prevalence of diabetes for 2010 and 2030 diabetes research and clinical practice vol.

changes in gut microbiota control metabolic endotoxemia-induced inflam- mation in high-fat diet-induced obesity and diabetes in mice diabetes vol.

enhanced nf-kb activity impairs vascular function through parp-1- sp-1- and cox-2-dependent mechanisms in type 2 diabetes diabetes vol.

hameed s. r. masoodi s. a. mir m. nabi k. ghazanfar and b. a. ganai type 2 diabetes mellitus from a metabolic disorder to an inflammatory condition world journal of diabetes vol.

chuengsamarn s. rattanamongkolgul r. luechapudi- porn c. phisalaphong and s. jirawatnotai curcumin extract for prevention of type 2 diabetes diabetes care vol.

increased inflammation is associated with islet autoimmunity and type 1 diabetes in the diabetes autoimmunity study in the young daisy plos one vol.

saini molecular mechanisms of insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes mellitus world journal of diabetes vol.

