concentration-re- sponse curve obtained to carbachol after 30 min of incubation ac extract 1 mgml did not differ from the curve obtainedafter 45 min of incubation in both tissues.to verify if the effects of ac extract are reversible we studied the concentration-response curves to carbachol after exposure to 1 mgml of ac extract at different washout times.

investigation on the effects of ac extract to- ward induced and spontaneous intestinal contractility through in vitro biological assays have been undertaken together with the assessment of its ability to inhibit some microorganisms.materials and methodsplants materialsac extract used in this study was supplied by bio- logica s.r.l.

unlike cy- profloaxacin ac did not affect neither such gram tested species as bifido and lactobacillus nor c. albicans.discussionenvironmental psychological both peripheral and central physiopathological factors cooperate in ibs develop- ment.27-29 treatment becomes a critical management and patients frequently seek out complementary and alternative strategies.the world health organization has promoted a project aimed at identifying the plants used in traditional medicinefor the treatment of diarrhea.30 in this article we have focused on the direct myogenic mechanism of ibs since in many patients with ibs and most patients with postinfectious ibs29 diarrhea is due to accelerated colonic transit.we investigated the effects of an ac extract toward gut spontaneous and induced contractility.to standardize the ac extract used in our experiments the analytical chemical profile was assessed by capillary electrophoresis analysis in particular by focusing on the content of --ec and -c being the most important and represented polyphenols.ac modifies ileal and colonic wave panels in spontaneous contractility fig.

4. effect of ac extract on carbachol-induced contraction in isolated guinea pig ileum a and proximal colon d. cumulative con- centration-response curves were obtained before and after exposure to ac extract for 30 min.

each point is the mean - sem n  5-6. time course of ac extract effect on carbachol-induced contraction in isolated guinea pig ileum b and proximal colon e 100 values are mean - sem n  5-6. cumulative concentration-response curves were obtained before and after exposure to ac extract 1 mgml for 5 15 30 and 45 min.

the release of contractility mediators results in a cytosolic ca2 increase triggering smooth muscle con-traction.35consistent with intracellular ca2 concentration impor- tance both for spontaneous and induced motility we have evaluated the ac extract ability to modulate calcium entry into the cells through l-type calcium channels as previ- ously described in guinea pig for isolated -c36 similar to papaverine.37the ac extract inhibited kcl 80 mm-induced contraction on the ileum and colon with a stronger effect on colon.calcium channel modifications indirectly affect the intesti- nal membrane receptors activity.

extract in guinea pigmatteo micucci1 roberto gotti1 ivan corazza2 gabriella tocci3 alberto chiarini1 marta de giorgio1 luca camarda1 maria frosini4 carla marzetti3 monica cevenini5 and roberta budriesi1departments of 1pharmacy and biotechnology and 2experimental diagnostic and speciality medicine alma mater studiorum--university of bologna bologna italy.3valsambro s.r.l.

extract ac and evaluated its effect on spontaneous and induced contractility in isolated guinea pig ileum and proximal colon.

ac extract reduced frequency and amplitude of colon smooth muscle spontaneous contractility in a concentration-dependent manner.

a weaker effect of the extract was exerted toward ileum smooth muscle spontaneous contractility.

the extract showed a noncompetitive reversible antagonism to carbachol both in proximal colon and ileum with a higher potency in proximal colon.

the antimicrobial effects of ac extract were observed toward campylobacter jejuni escherichia coli and salmonella spp.

extract ac has been used in traditional medicine for the treatment of several diseases including diarrhea and other gastrointestinal ailments.

bark extract by quantifying the main catechins content.

1. a original recording of concentration-response effects of ac extract on relaxations of spontaneous ileum and colon contractility.

