immobilized antimicrobial peptides with antibiofilm activity have also been de- scribed including peptide cwr11 immobilized on catheters via a polydopamine-peptide strategy which exhibits activity against e. coli s. aureus and p. aerugi- nosa .a study by yadavalli and colleagues  demonstrated that certain antimicrobial peptides at sublethal concen- trations cause filamentation via interference with cell division in e. coli.

interestingly one of these anti-biofilm peptides has been turned into a dimer by incorporation of a disulfide bond which led to increased antimicrobial and anti- biofilm activities .additional studies have also successfully incorporated precision engineering capabilities into peptides.

these synthetic peptides act as prophylactic therapies to prevent biofilm colonization on surfaces and eradicate pre-formed biofilms formed by the most dangerous pathogens including those highlighted as highest risk by the world health organization in february 2017. so far a number of peptides have been identified that targetbiofilms formed by various drug-resistant bacteria  .

future work will have to address issues with delivery stability in vivo and potential off-target killing effects of precision peptides to prevent unintended removal of microbes.lysinslysins also known as endolysins or murein peptidogly- can hydrolases are hydrolytic enzymes produced by bacteriophages or phages that break down the cell wall of target bacteria during the final stage of the lytic phage cycle.

bacaucin-1 has been used as a preventive therapeutic in mice and as a meat preservative 44...peptides including those with selective activity may also be immobilized on surfaces such as medical devices to prevent colonization with pathogenic organisms .

however pnas have limited activity in the host due to their inherent high hydrophobicity resulting from the lack of phosphate groups within their backbone which leads to unselective interactions and consequently cytotoxicity and hemolytic activity that still need to be addressed.

hypothetical images of modifications that can be made to generate precision peptides.further engineered to generate improved variants such as p307sq-8c which had activity against biofilms mic values comparable to those of standard-of-care antibiotics such as levofloxacin and ceftazidime and synergy with polymyxin b. p307sq-8c further reduced the bacterial burden in a mouse model of a. baumannii skin infection.

the same applies to the other two examples where peptides against green center image and purple bacteria right image would selectively remove these organisms.with opportunistic pathogens such as enterococcus fae- cium carbapenem-resistant enterobacteriaceae and clostridium difficile  the latter being responsible for 14000 deaths per year only in the us.

pnas were designed accordingly to achieve species selectivity based on the presence of 20-25 bases within their sequence that confer selectivity the target gene and homologs were present in the four bacterial species tested the translation initiation region of the mrna had at least two base-pair differences between the different bacteria and was amenable to the design of the peptides and there was evidence that gene silencing of the target andor inhibition of its cognate protein inhibited growth.

additional emerging approaches for the precision killing of bacteria not covered in this review due to space are the use of bacteriocins antibodies or anti-virulence compounds .figure 2personalized approach to infectious diseases.

subtilis and achieved a minimal inhibitory concentra- tion mic of 4.0 mm but no activity against the other bacteria in the concentration range analyzed.

obpgp279 have been recently reported to have activity against bacteria such as p. aeruginosa and a. baumannii .in another study lysins were engineered to kill a. bau- mannii.

another example of synthetic peptide- based antibiotics is lysins which show antimicrobial activity against gram-positive bacteria and have been engineered to expand their host range to gram-negative pathogens.both nucleic acid and peptide-based systems still have to overcome certain limitations in order to ensure translation into the clinic.

available online at sciencedirectnext-generation precision antimicrobials towards personalized treatment of infectious diseasescesar de la fuente-nunez marcelo dt torresiddft2f francisco jm mojicaand timothy k luantibiotics started to be used almost 90 years ago to eradicate life-threatening infections.

hypothetical graphic showing treatment of specific disease causing bacterial infections with precision antimicrobials.

