we found that the overall levels of c. difficile in glycerol- treated reactors with l. reuteri decreased significantly they were 105-fold lower than the levels in untreated reactors p  0.0084. l. reuteri treatment alone did not significantly alter the c. difficile levels compared to those attained after the control treatment whereas glycerol alone resulted in 10-fold greater concentrations of c. difficile although this increase was not statistically significant.

furthermore the direct addition of reuterin to mbras had no effect on c. difficile growth data not shown indicating the requirement of viable l. reuteri substrate availability and active reuterin production for c. difficile growth inhibition.consistent with our results on the mbra ex vivo inhibition of c. difficile germination and growth was observed in the cecal contents from germfree mice simultaneously treated with l. reuteri and glycerol.

the codelivery of l. reuteri and glycerol resulted in an 104-fold suppression of the numbers of c. difficile cfu per milliliter p  0.01. treatment with phosphate-buffered saline pbs glycerol or l. reuteri alone supported the germination and growth of c. difficile ex vivo fig.

to ensure that inhibition of c. difficile growth was not due to other factors affected by the pocr mutation we tested isogenic glycerol dehydratase gdh mutants of l. reuteri 17938 and 6475. glycerol dehydratase is the vitamin b12-dependent enzyme located in the pdu-cbi-hem-cob cluster that converts glycerol to reuterin   and mutations in this gene do not affect expression of other genes in the cluster.

no statistically significant increases in otu abundance were observed in communities cultivated in the presence of glycerol rather there was a trend toward an increased abundance of variable otus in the firmicutes phylum .somewhat surprisingly the changes in community structure following treatment with l. reuteri in the presence of glycerol were modest and not statistically significant r  0.12 p  0.131  compare the blue lreu-glyc and black glyc symbols even though in the presence of glycerol l. reuteri exhibited potent antimicrobial activity against c. difficile.

the mbra model of c. difficile infection was initially optimized using the clinically relevant isolate cd2015 ribotype 027. the antibiotic clindamycin predisposes intestinal microbial communities to c. difficile invasion  and is used to disrupt the fecal mbras those not treated with clindamycin are resistant to c. difficile colonization .

taken together these data show that in the presence of glycerol human-derived l. reuteri strains have antimicrobial activity against c. difficile in vitro and reuterin production is required for this phenotype.glycerol fermentation by l. reuteri 17938 prevents c. difficile invasion in antibiotic-treated human fecal mbras.

the codelivery of l. reuteri and glycerol prevented c. difficile from establishing high con- centrations in a number of antibiotic-treated microbial communities and the suppres- sion of c. difficile growth remained after the termination of l. reuteri supplementation.

while c. difficile viability was notably diminished by reuterin in our in vitro and ex vivo studies in vivo efficacy studies are under way to assess whether coadministration of l. reuteri and glycerol can be used to treat c. difficile infections in vivo.success with adjunct probiotic therapy relies on maintenance of the viability of the probiotic when it is paired with antimicrobial administration.

pathogen killing by reuterin relied on the immediate bioavailability of glycerol to l. reuteri in close proximity with c. difficile.in summary our results show that probiotic strain l. reuteri 17938 is intrinsically resistant to the antimicrobial drugs used to treat antibiotic-associated cdi and has reuterin-mediated antimicrobial activity against c. difficile.

briefly overnight cultures of l. reuteri were spotted 2 ul onto bhi medium supplemented with 20 mm glucose and developed by anaerobic incubation at 37degc for 24 h. overnight cultures of c. difficile strains were inoculated 107 to 108 cellsml in 7 ml soft agar bhi broth 2 glycerol 0.7 technical agar the c. difficile-inoculated soft agar was layered over the l. reuteri spots and the culture was incubated anaerobically at 37degc for 24 h. clear zones of inhibition 1 mm around each spot were scored.

pathophysiologi- cal relevance was demonstrated when the codelivery of l. reuteri with glycerol was effective against c. difficile colonization in complex human fecal microbial communi- ties whereas treatment with either glycerol or l. reuteri alone was ineffective.

a global unbiased microbiome and metabolomics analysis independently confirmed that glycerol precursor delivery with l. reuteri elicited changes in the composition and function of the human microbial community that preferentially targets c. difficile outgrowth and toxicity a finding consistent with glycerol fermentation and reuterin production.

specifically we tested whether the addition of glycerol alone glyc l. reuteri alone lreu or l. reuteri and glycerol together lreu-glyc altered the c. difficile invasion dynamics compared to those achieved in untreated reactors ctrl.

because continuous-flow cultivation of l. reuteri alone in the absence of fecal communities in mbra bioreactor medium brm2 resulted in poor growth 2.5 x 106 cfuml compared to the growth after cultivation in a medium preferential for l. reuteri growth deman rogosa sharpe mrs medium 1 x 109 cfuml it was not surprising that l. reuteri levels declined quickly following the cessation of treatment.to examine whether l. reuteri treatment in the presence of glycerol significantly impacted the levels of any otus in addition to c. difficile we compared the otu abundances in these treated reactors lreu-glyc to those in all other reactors ctrl lreu and glyc on days 11 13 and 15. these comparisons identified a single otu otu768  outlined in the red box whose abundance was statistically significantly different between these two populations p  0.017 mann-whitney u test on days 11 13 and 15. otu768 classified in the peptostreptococcaceae family was present in both the untreated control group and the group treated with l. reuteri without glycerol 22.3 - 18.6 counts and was present at increased levels in the glycerol-grown reactors 150 - 173.6 counts and its levels were reduced to 0.1 - 0.3 count in the glycerol-grown l. reuteri-treated lreu-glyc mbras.

