sur- prisingly we realized that the growth occurred only in stools from participants with an increased body mass index and a nickel allergy.after 96 h bacterial growth could also be detected at 1 mm of nickel concentration no viable organisms could be detected above this range of nickel concentration.the growth of nickel-resistant bacteria was constantly characterized by a strict anaerobiosis and a prolonged lag phase the duration of which depended on the nickel concentration in the media.a typical growth curve for human nickel-resistant bacteria is described in the following link fi .we isolated a strict anaerobic nickel-resistant bacterium in 100 of overweight subjects with a nickel allergy.

the biochem- ical behaviour of this isolate is reported in .concomitantly to the constant presence of this strictly anaerobic nickel-resistant isolate nbci ky242648 other anaerobic nickel-resistant bacteria were identified.

the top hits of blastn search for the nickel-resistant bacteria are re- ported in .resultswe isolated nickel-resistant bacteria in obese humans but not in any of the lean participants.

with a very simple and reproducible technique we were able toisolate human nickel-resistant bacteria in the human microbiome duplicating in humans similar findings of nickel-resistant bacteria isolated in contaminated soils and wastewaters polluted with effluents of metallurgic electroplating industrial sources .

nickel-resistant bacteria isolated in human microbiomee.

the aim of our study was to determine if nickel-resistant bacteria could also be isolated from human samples.

antibiotic-tolerant bacteria but also thrive on the excess nickel which results in its degradation and removal from the environment .although nickel-resistant bacteria in the environment have been extensively studied essentially in humans no specific study has been undertaken to prove the presence of analogous nickel- resistant bacteria despite the fact that we are constantly exposed to nickel.the aim of this study was to investigate the potential exis- tence of 'nickel-tolerant' bacteria in the human microbiome.materials and methodssamplingapproval for this study was obtained from the irb of the italian red cross no.

within 30 min after defe- cation the faecal samples were immediately stored at 4degc and processed within 2 h.isolation and screening of nickel-resistant bacteria stool cultures were made at different nickel sulphate concen- trations in both aerobic and anaerobic conditions.

published by elsevier ltd on behalf of european society of clinical microbiology and infectious diseases this is an open access article under the cc by-nc-nd license table 1. biochemical characteristics of a clinical nickel-resistant bacterium ky242648 isolated in 100 of obese subjects-dman-dmne-bxyl-balap--dtag-dtre-cit-mnt--ldc-ihisa-cmt-bgur--ggaa-imlta-ellm-ilata-liquid nutrient broth medium liofilchem roseto degli abruzzi italy supplemented with increasing concentrations of nickel sulphate niso46h2o at 0.1 0.2 0.5 1 5 10 32 and 50 mm.

published by elsevier ltd on behalf of european society of clinical microbiology and infectious diseases nmni 19 67-70 this is an open access article under the cc by-nc-nd license .table 2. top blastn hits for the nickel-resistant bacteria isolated from obese subjectsoverweight allergic subjects respectively.

no nickel-resistant bacteria were identified in any of the lean subjects.

to separate species phenotypic characters must also be identified and at least two phenotypic differences from existing species should be identified if possible  see .the human nickel-resistant bacteria were identified as shigella enterococci and enterobacter but i they were strictly anaer- obic ii they only grew in the human samples from obese people and iii they tolerated a maximum concentration of 1 mm nickel.data availabilitythe 16 rrna gene sequences of the identified human nickel- resistant bacteria have been deposited in genbank ncbi with accession numbers ky24264848 ky24264849 and ky242650.discussion and conclusionheavy-metal-resistant microorganisms occur naturally in pri- mary contaminated soils.

the nickel-resistant strains isolated from human samples were mainly shigella enterobacters and enterococci all po-tential pathogens.shigella are highly pathogenic bacteria that cause 1.1 million deaths and over 164 million communicable cases every year.

an excess of heavy metals in the diet might promote a primary perturbation of the gut microbiota in ways that promote excess body weight and select nickel-resistant bacteria which in turn might trigger inflammation in the intestinal tracts of the obese.

the transplant of nickel-resistant bacteria in germ-free mice could help in clarifying the possible role of these microbes inshaping the obese phenotype.it can be concluded that there are several different heavy- metal-resistant bacteria in humans that should be considered for further studies.c 2017 the authors.

