All authors read and approved the final manuscript.AbbreviationsAIEC Adherent invasive E. coli AMR-SSuT Antimicrobial multidrug resistance to streptomycin sulfonamide and tetracycline APEC Avian pathogenic E. coli BRIG BLAST Ring image generator CC Clonal complex CDS Coding DNA sequence CU Chaperone usher pathway fimbriae EAEC Enteroaggregative E. coli ECOR E. coli collection of reference strains ECP E. coli common pilusEHEC Enterohaemorrhagic E. coli EPEC Enteropathogenic E. coli ETEC Enterotoxigenic E. coli ETT2 E. coli type III secretion system 2ExPEC Extraintestinal pathogenic E. coli Fec Ferric ironIII-dicitrate uptake system FF Fitness factor Flag-1 E. coli peritrichous flagella 1 gene cluster Flag-2 E. coli lateral flagella 2 gene cluster G4C Group 4 capsule GI Genomic islandGTR Generalized time-reversible HGT Horizontal gene transfer IPEC Intestinal pathogenic E. coli IS Insertion sequence LEE Locus of enterocyte effacement LPS Lipopolysaccharide MAEC Mastitis-associated E. coli MGE Mobile genetic element ML Maximum likelihood MLST Multi-locus sequence typingMNEC Newborn meningitis-associated E. coli MPEC Mammary pathogenic E. coli MST Minimum spanning tree OG Orthologous group OMP Outer membrane protein ORF Open reading frame PAI Pathogenicity island PAMP Pathogen-associated molecular pattern PE Paired-end PHAST PHAge Search Tool PTS Phosphotransferase system Rhs Rearrangement hotspot SLV Single locus variant SPATE Serine protease autotransporters ofEnterobacteriaceae SRA Sequence read archive ST Sequence type T2SS Type II secretion system T3SS Type III secretion system T5SS Type V secretion system T6SS Type VI secretion system UPEC Uropathogenic E. coli VF Virulence factor VFDB Virulence factors database WGA Whole genome nucleotide alignmentAcknowledgementsWe thank Alan McNally for hosting Andreas Leimbach for a week and showing him some of the comparative genomics ropes.

Thus like ExPEC MAEC are facultative and opportunistic pathogens basically of naturally occurring commensal environmental E. coli origin As a consequence we propose to use the term mastitis- associated E. coli MAEC instead of mammary patho- genic E. coli MPEC.The genome content of certain bovine E. coli strains seems not to support the ability to elicit mastitis in udder-healthy cows as was shown in the case of the commensal strain K71 The large pan-genome of bovine E. coli isolates offers many gene combinations to increase bacterial fitness by utilization of milk nutrients and evasion from the bovine innate immune system thus resulting in sufficient bacterial intra-mammary growth and consequently infection of the mammary gland Isolates with an increased poten- tial to cause mastitis can colonize the udder by chance depending on suitable environmental conditions and the cow's immune status.

The most prominent extraintestinal pathogenic E. coli ExPEC pathotypes are uropathogenic E. coli UPEC newborn meningitis- associated E. coli MNEC and avian pathogenic E. coli APEC - In contrast to IPEC which are trad- itionally considered to have a conserved VF repertoire ExPEC are derived from different phylogenetic lineages and have variable VF content.

E. coli ECC-1470 T6SS1 is classified as subtype i1  or the second E. coli T6SS-2 phylogenetic cluster  and T6SS2 as subtype i2  or the first E. coli T6SS-1 cluster .

This table also includes the reference E. coli genomes for the phylogenetic analysis see below however their annotation features are listed as downloaded from NCBI.Phylogenetic analysisA WGA of selected E. coli genomes was done with the default parameter settings of Mugsy v1.2.3  and with E. fergusonii as outgroup.

Nevertheless a mammary pathogenic E. coli MPEC pathotype has been proposed suggesting virulence traits that differentiate MAEC from commensal E. coli.

The present study was designed to investigate the MPEC pathotype hypothesis by comparing the genomes of MAEC and commensal bovine E. coli.Results We sequenced the genomes of eight E. coli isolated from bovine mastitis cases and six fecal commensal isolates from udder-healthy cows.

We analyzed the phylogenetic history of bovine E. coli genomes by supplementing this strain panel with eleven bovine-associated E. coli from public databases.

The bovine gastrointestinal tract is a natural reservoir for commensal and pathogenic E. coli of high phylogenetic and genotypic diversity with the putative ability to cause mastitis  Nevertheless it was proposed that various genotypes of E. coli with specific phenotypes are better suited to elicit mastitis than others .E.

As a consequence ExPEC are faculta- tive pathogens that are recruited from the normal intes- tinal microbiota   .The broad spectrum of E. coli lifestyles and phenotypes is a result of the underlying genomic plasticity of E. coli strains .

