in ckd patients correction of metabolic acidosis may even be important to delay the progression of renal damage .this paper analyzes the content of vitamin k1 alkali and fiber of different renal diets used in pre-dialysis ckd patients and deals with the importance of these nutrients within the dietary management of ckd.materials and methodswe examined the energy and nutrients composition of four types of renal diets  according to their protein content normal diet nd 0.8 g proteinkg body weight low protein diet lpd 0.6 g proteinkg bw vegan diet vd 0.7 g proteinkg bw very low protein diet vlpd 0.3 g proteinkg bw.for each type of diet 12 daily meal plans adapted for a 70 kg patient were analyzed and the results reported as daily average values.

superscript letters indicate p  0.05. a lpd vs. nd b vd vs. nd c vlpd vs. nd d vd vs. lpd e vlpd vs. vd f vlpd vs. lpd.the net endogenous acid production neap value decreases from the normal diet to the vegetarian diets namely vd and vlpd figure .we calculated the potential renal acid load pral value to compare the acidicalkalizing power of the four dietary patterns and as expected it decreases from the normal diet to the vegetarian diets figure .regarding the magnesium content only the vd covers the levels of 240 mgday recommended for the adult general population due to legumes and grains that are highly represented in this diet.figure 1. the potential renal acid load pral and the net endogenous acid production neap of the four studied renal diets expressed as meqday.

dietary interventions aim to reduce the burden of uremic toxins in order to prevent or correct signs symptoms and complications of chronic renal insufficiency thereby delaying the need for dialysis .healthy dietary patterns including dash dietary approaches to stop hypertension diet and mediterranean diets may be useful for ckd prevention or when restriction of phosphate ornutrients 2017 9 444 doi10.3390nu9050444nitrogen load are not necessary or feasible -.

they include low-protein regimens namely the conventional animal-based low protein 0.6 gkgday or the vegan low protein 0.7 gkgday diet or the vegan very low protein 0.3 gkgday diet supplemented with essential amino acids and keto-acids .these renal diets are based on the control of protein sodium and phosphate intake while preserving nutritional status by high energy intake and adequate essential amino acids supply.hence a progressive protein restriction is highly recommended along with the progression of renal insufficiency  however this is only one aspect of the dietary management of ckd patients.

thus it is not surprising that prescription of a normal diet that is a diet covering the who recommendations may be a successful first-step intervention able to reduce sodium load nitrogen waste product retention and calcium-phosphate metabolism abnormalities.while adopting healthy dietary patterns such as the dash or mediterranean diets may be useful as a prevention strategy in a population-based setting specific renal diets aimed at protein sodium and phosphorus controlled intake may be needed in advanced stages of renal insufficiency.

this is the reason why dietary manipulation in renal patients is historically related to protein intake which is strictly linked to sodium and phosphorus intake.this paper focused on additional aspects namely vitamin k1 and fiber content and alkalizing power of these renal diets factors that can play an important role in the management of ckd patients.

in the case of vegetarian diets attention must be paid to serum potassium levels.keywords renal diets vitamin k1 pral fiber gut microbiota uremic toxins low protein diet renal nutrition metabolic acidosis ckdintroductionnutritional treatment plays a pivotal role in the care of patients affected by chronic kidney disease ckd.

diets abundant in fiber-rich foods fruits vegetables and legumes such as the mediterranean or purely vegetarian diets have the potential to shift the microbial metabolism in saccharolytic direction with the release of scfas and the reduction of uremic toxins .unfortunately current dietary management of ckd patients often foresees a strict restriction of most fruits vegetables and legumes corresponding to the richest suppliers of dietary fibers.

dietary reference intakes for vitamin a vitamin k arsenic boron chromium copper iodine iron manganese molybdenum nickel silicon vanadium and zinc national academies press washington dc usa 2001.fusaro m. d'alessandro c. noale m. tripepi g. plebani m. veronese n. iervasi g. giannini s. rossini m. tarroni g. et al.

2012 27 2271-2278.  fusaro m. gallieni m. noale m. tripepi g. miozzo d. plebani m. zaninotto m. guglielmi g. miotto d. fabris f. et al.

in the early phases of ckd normalization of protein 0.8 gkgday and salt 6 gday intake are usually implemented with the aim of enhancing the anti-proteinuric response to renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system raas inhibitors and to prevent abnormalities of calcium-phosphate metabolism .when renal insufficiency progresses more specific renal diets are prescribed to reduce uremic toxin retention phosphate and sodium load.

hence iron status vitb12 zinc levels should be monitored in ckd patients in general and in particular in the elderly and in those following a vegan or very low protein diet for a long time.conclusionsin conclusion renal diets for advanced chronic renal insufficiency are structured to achieve the main goal of lowering protein phosphate and sodium intake while supplying adequate energy.

calcium iron polyunsaturated fatty acids pufas and native vitamin d represent other types of supplements potentially useful in ckd patients .however due to novel evidence in the physiopathology of ckd and its complications other non-traditional dietary aspects should be considered in the nutritional management of ckd patients.

2014 85 166-173.  fusaro m. noale m. viola v. galli f. tripepi g. vajente n. plebani m. zaninotto m. guglielmi g. miotto d. et al.

differences were considered to be statistically significant when p  0.05.resultstable shows the main characteristics of the studied renal diets.table reports the energy and nutrients content of the studied renal diets.

