furthermore the clinical manifestations and appropriate diagnostic approach of the disease are discussed with all possible therapeutic measures that can be taken also including the potential beneficial effect of probiotics.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.introduction183review criteria184epidemiology184pathogenesis184the role of gut microbiota in nafld187abbreviations cdaa choline-deficientl-amino acid-defined ck-18 cytokeratin-18 ckd chronic kidney disease cr calorie restriction crtc1 camp-responsive element binding protein creb-regulated transcriptional coactivator cvd cardiovascular disease edc endocrine-disrupting chemicals ffa plasma free fatty acids fxr farnesoid x receptor gckr glucokinase regulator hcc hepatocellular carcinoma hdl high density lipoprotein hf hepatic fibrosis hp helicobacter pylori hsc hepatic stellate cells ir insulin resistance lps lipopolysaccharide mboat7 membrane bound o-acyltransferase domain containing 7 mets metabolic syndrome nafld non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nash nonalcoholic steatohepatitis pnpla3 palatine- like phospholipase 3 scfa short chain fatty acids snp single nucleotide polymorphism ss simple steatosis t2dm type 2 diabetes mellitus tlr-4 toll like receptor 4 tm6sf2 transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 gene udca ursodeoxycholic acid vldl very low-density lipoproteins.

exclusion of other possible causes of hepatic inflammatory disease including hereditary such asm e t a b o l i s m c l i n i c a l a n d e x p e r i m e n t a l 7 1  2 0 1 7  1 8 2 - 1 9 7189wilson's disease or hemochromatosis or acquired etiologies such as viral hepatitis hepatotoxic drugs alcoholic liver disease or autoimmune diseases .most clinicians suspect nafld if a patient presents with abnormal liver function tests especially alanine transaminase alt aspartate aminotransferase ast and gamma-glutamyl transferase.

non-alcoholic fatty liver disease an update with special focus on the role of gut microbiotamichael dou georgios  dimitra gialamprinou jannis kountourapanagiotis katsineloa burgerspital hospital department of internal medicine solothurn 4500 switzerlandb agios pavlos hospital department of internal medicine thessaloniki macedonia 55134 greecec papageorgiou general hospital department of pediatrics aristotle university of thessaloniki macedonia 56403 greeced ippokration hospital department of internal medicine second medical clinic aristotle university of thessaloniki thessaloniki macedonia 54642 greecea r t i c l e i n f oa b s t r a c t article historyreceived 23 february 2017accepted 27 march 2017keywordsnafldgut microbiota probiotics gastrointestinal bacteria metabolic syndrome obesitycontentsnon-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld is a significant global health burden in children adolescents and adults with substantial rise in prevalence over the last decades.

1 - some fundamental mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld which can explain the complex pathophysiology of the disease.

moreover systemic clinical manifestations due to nafld-related cvd and or kidney disease may also be recognized.diagnosisit is widely accepted that nafld is mostly diagnosed by exclusion of other possible causes of chronic liver disease.

j steroid biochem mol biol 201515494-103. ahmed m. non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in 2015. world j hepatol 201571450. byrne cd targher g. nafld a multisystem disease.

clin liver dis 201620205-14. musso g gambino r cassader m pagano g. meta-analysis natural history of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld and diagnostic accuracy of non-invasive tests for liver disease severity.

nash may progress to nash-related cirrhosis and hcc more often than ss which is regarded as a benign entity .currently it is believed that nafld is not only a liver confined pathology but it is regarded as a multisystem disease with a hepatic component as well as extra-hepatic manifestations  except for the liver-related morbidity nafld is also related to extra-hepatic morbidity including systemic metabolic complications e.g.

thus it is not recommended for all patients with nafld but should be considered for those who are at great risk for developing nash and advanced fibrosis strength - 1 evidence - b or those patients with suspected nafld in whom the clinicaland laboratory evaluation cannot safely exclude other causes of chronic liver disease strength - 1 evidence - b .

adipsin obestatin omentin vaspin etc.. a thorough insight into the pathophysiologic mechanisms linking adipokines with nafld might lead to the design of studies investigating the combined adipokine peptides used as noninvasive diagnostic markers of nafld and novel clinical trials targeting the nafld treatment .endocrine disruptors or endocrine-disrupting chemicalsedcs constitute a highly heterogeneous group of molecules found in the environment or in consumer products.

moreover higher rates of anti-hp igg were reported in nafld patients compared to controls in a cross-sectional study  but also an association between hp infection and the mentioned ir being the pathoge- netic basis of nafld .clinical manifestationsthe great majority of patients with nafld remain asymp- tomatic or may report nonspecific symptoms especially fatigue .

furthermore carrying two g alleles does not increase the risk of severe disease meaning that the influence of this variant on disease severity follows a dominant model.

additionally whereas the disease at the early stages is potentially reversible by following the aforementioned manage- ment regimens liver transplantation remains a promising solution for patients with advanced disease .

j gastroenterol hepatol 201328 64-70. polyzos sa kountouras j zavos c deretzi g. nonalcoholic fatty liver disease multimodal treatment options for a pathogenetically multiple-hit disease.

best pract res clin gastroenterol 201630133-42. park js seo jh youn h-s. gut microbiota and clinical disease obesity and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

