body temperature normalized and patients who presented with allergic or airway symptomstable 1  details during levothyroxine lt4 monotherapy.doses of levothyroxine monotherapy t4 and values of tsh ft4 ft3 rt3 and calculated ft3rt3 ratio normal  2-2.5 before initiating t3 monotherapy or combination therapy t3  t4.table 2  details during t3 monotherapy or combination therapy.doses of triiodothyronine monotherapy t3 or combination therapy t3  t4 and control values of tsh ft4 and ft3 in symptom-guided thyroid hormone therapy when the successful results were achieved duration of the therapy in months.table 3  details of the medical records before t3 or combination therapy.details of mold exposure time in years associate diseases dio2 polymorphism tt is genetically normal individuals with either ct or cc have impaired function of dio2 enzyme cortisoldhea levels from serum andor saliva and substitution of cortisol.

the rationale for t3 therapy is t3 is biologically active hormone that does not require activity of the dio2 which is needed for conversion from endogenous prohormone t4 to active t3 hormone or when exogenous levothyroxine lt4 monotherapy is administered.

combination therapy with synthetic t3 and lt4 thyroid hormones t3 12.5-35 ug and lt4 50-75 ug was prescribed to four patients and one patient received biological thyroid hormone extract lt4  t3.

the treatment was based on careful interview clinical monitoring and laboratory analysis of serum free t3 ft3 reverse t3 rt3 and thyroid-stimulating hormone free t4 cortisol and dehy- droepiandrosterone dhea values.

t3 or to an inhibitory reversed t3 form rt3 dio3 -.

exposure to volatile organic compounds present in water-damaged buildings including metabolic products of toxigenic fungi and mold-derived inflammatory agents can lead to a deficiency or imbalance of many hormones such as active t3 hormone.

it has been presumed that the peripheral conversion of t4 353'5'-tetraiodothyronine into t3 353'-triiodothyronine is sufficient to satisfy the overall tissue requirements.

the importance of avoiding mycotoxin exposure via the diet is underlined as dio2 genetic polymorphism and dysfunction of dio2 play an important role in the development of symptoms that can be treated successfully with t3 therapy.keywords water-damaged building mycotoxins hypothyroid symptoms triiodothyronine stress intolerance latent adrenal insufficiency ft3rt3 ratio dio2introductionlong-term exposure to molds in water-damaged buildings wdb has been associated with numerous health problems including allergic airway symptoms - fungal sinusitis    abnormalities in t and b cells - infection sensitivity  asthma - respiratory infections    central and peripheral neuropathy and polyendocrinopathy  neuro- logic symptoms    neuropsychological cognitive dysfunc-tion cd - neuropsychiatric symptoms    and chronic fatigue cf   .

it is now well established that mold and mycotoxins are important constituents of the milieu in wdb and that they can provoke a huge spectrum of illnesses     -.exposure to volatile organic compounds including metabolites produced by toxigenic fungi some of which are inflammatory agents can lead to a deficiency or imbalance of many hormones such as insufficient amounts of the active form of thyroid hor- mone commonly abbreviated to t3 hormone  .thyroid hormones play a very important role in development growth and glucose-fat-protein metabolic homeostasis in all tis- sues by affecting the expression of many genes.

it has been shown that the most important factors in thyroid hormone regulation are the activities of the three deiodinase enzymes dio 1 2 3. in particular dio2 regulates the activities of thyroid hormone action by metabolizing the precursor molecule thyroxine t4 that is secreted by the thyroid gland into the biologically active molecule t3.

dio enzymes affect the thyroid hormone regulation by controlling thyroid hormone homeostasis at the cellular level such as in the case of symptoms in mold exposure or in other situations in which there is a lack of active t3 hormone in the peripheral tissues or brain .

a deficiency of active cellular t3 hormone has been described as a non-thyroidal illness syndrome ntis .

the patients with this disease presents with normal function of thyroid or with required exogenous t4 with normal thyroid- stimulating hormone tsh free t4 ft4 and free t3 ft3 values in the blood but still with symptoms of hypothyroidism.

importantly the major part of t3 is generated locally from t4 by dio2 in most tissues of the body and in the brain especially at the hypothalamus-pituitary level .the toxins released by the microbes living in damp buildings can induce oxidative stress os.

for example os reducesthe capacity of dio2 to convert thyroxine t4 into its biologi- cally active form of t3.

