adv nutr 20178240-52.keywords nonalcoholic fatty liver disease gut microbiota diet nafld nash probioticsintroductionnonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld6 is the most com- mon cause of chronic liver diseases in the world 1. nafld is defined as a liver pathologic spectrum which is initiated by steatosis that may progress to nonalcoholic steatohepati- tis nash.

reviewnonalcoholic fatty liver disease the gut microbiome and diet12zeinab mokhtari3 deanna l gibson4 and azita hekmatdoost353department of clinical nutrition and dietetics faculty of nutrition sciences and food technology national nutrition and food technology research institute shahid beheshti university of medical sciences tehran iran 4department of biology university of british columbia okanagan campus kelowna british columbia canada and 5department of gastroenterology hepatology and nutrition university of british columbia vancouver british columbia canadanonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld is the most common liver disorder in the world yet the pathogenesis of the disease is not well elucidated.

con- sidering that the anatomy of the liver facilitates a close inter- action between the liver and gut microbiome it is possible that gut microbial metabolites and circulating byproducts influence liver function.

these metab- olites are toxic and associated with gut permeability 132 133. overall although better designed studies are needed there are sufficient data to support that choline and the gut microbiome together play a role in liver disease.high-fructose dietary intake is also considered to be a sig- nificant risk factor in the development of nafld 134 135. some studies have indicated that antibiotics prebi- otics and probiotics are protective factors in fructose- induced liver damage 136-139. these studies suggested that gut microbe manipulation may protect from the side ef- fects of high-fructose diets on the liver.

n engl j med 2002346 1221-31.bedogni g miglioli l masutti f tiribelli c marchesini g bellentani s. prevalence of and risk factors for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease the dionysos nutrition and liver study.

am j physiol gastrointest liver physiol 2007292g518-25.soares jb pimentel-nunes p roncon-albuquerque r leite- moreira a. the role of lipopolysaccharidetoll-like receptor 4 signal- ing in chronic liver diseases.

am j physiol gastrointest liver physiol 2010299 g669-76.compare d coccoli p rocco a nardone om de maria s carteni m nardone g. gut-liver axis the impact of gut microbiota on nonalco- holic fatty liver disease.

j nutr biochem 200920657-62.askari f rashidkhani b hekmatdoost a. cinnamon may have therapeutic benefits on lipid profile liver enzymes insulin resistance and high-sensitivity c-reactive protein in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease patients.

j hepatol 200747711-7.araya j rodrigo r videla la thielemann l orellana m pettinelli p poniachik j. increase in long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid n-6n-3 ratio in relation to hepatic steatosis in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

world j gastroenterol 2015218787-803.qin j li y cai z li s zhu j zhang f liang s zhang w guan y shen d et al.

j nutr 20001301314-9.birt df boylston t hendrich s jane jl hollis j li l mcclelland j moore s phillips gj rowling m et al.

overgrowth of bacteria in particular gram-negative bacte- ria increases the production of hepatotoxic products such as lps 23. the disruption of the intestinal integrity in- creases intestinal permeability which leads to bacterial translocation and bacterial endotoxins penetrate into the portal vein which increases the risk of nafld development through the activation of hepatic inflammatory cells 23 33. bacterial endotoxins are recognized by toll-like recep- tors tlrs on hepatocytes which recognize several compo- nents of microbes and initiate immunologic responses 32. when bacterial lps signals through tlr4 signaling ulti- mately activates nf-kb and proinflammatory cytokines 32 34. moreover dysbiosis is associated with reduced syn- thesis and secretion of fasting-induced adipocyte factor fiaf also known as angiopoietin-like 4 in enterocytes which results in increased activity of lipoprotein lipase lpl and the accumulation of tgs in the liver 35 36.dysbiosis and inflammasome deficiency may be important in the development of hepatic steatosis and inflammation 3738. inflammasomes are cytoplasmic multiprotein complexes that sense endogenous or exogenous stress- or damage- associated molecular patterns 39 40. upon sensing the rel- evant signal they assemble typically together with the adaptor protein apoptosis-associated speck-like protein asc into a multiprotein complex that governs caspase-1 activation and subsequent cleavage of effector proinflammatory cytokines including pro-il-1b and pro-il-18 which ultimately leads to apoptosis 38. in inflammasome deficiency large amounts of bacterial endotoxins enter the portal vein and the liver then has to process high amounts of endotoxins which leads to ab- errant and damaging inflammatory responses that promote progression to nash 37. another mechanism by which the gut microbiota contributes to the development of nafld may be through increasing the number of ethanol-producing bacteria e.g.

escherichia coli 15. these bacteria produce al- cohol which could participate in the disruption of gut per- meability the generation of ros and consequently liver inflammation 41 42. however the specific mechanisms of this hypothesis require further investigation.the characterization of the gut microbial composition and comparing it between patients and healthy individuals is regarded as one way of identifying a healthy microbial ec- osystem 43. indeed a few studies have examined dysbiosis in nafld table 1. patients with nash harbor a lower abun- dance of faecalibacterium and firmicutes clostridiales family anaerosporobacter but a higher abundance of para- bacteroides and allisonella in their fecal microbiome 45. importantly it has been reported that improved intrahepatic tg content is related to a lower abundance of firmicutes and a higher abundance of bacteroidetes 45. in support of this obese individuals with nafld have increased mem- bers of the phylum firmicutes lachnospiraceae dorea robinsoniella and roseburia 46. yet children and adoles- cents with nash do not show similar patterns and instead have increased bacteriodetes prevotellaceae prevotella porphyromonas and proteobacteria enterobacteriaceae escherichia alcaligenaceae and a decrease in firmicutes lachnospiraceae blautia coproccus eubacterium roseburia ruminococcaceae faecalibacterium oscillospira ruminococcus and actinobacteria bifidobacteriaceae bifidobacterium in their fecal microbiomes 15. in support of these stud- ies pediatric patients with nafld showed an increase in bradyrhizobium anaerococcus peptoniphilus propionibacterium acnes dorea and ruminococcus and a decrease in oscillospira and rikenellaceae 44. although it is clear that there may be some discrepancies in what defines dysbiosis in liver dis- ease the frequency of disease also occurs in association with obesity and is considered a manifestation of metabolic syn- drome.

on the other hand through their receptor gpr43 and other pathways they reduce gut permeability and invasion of bacterial pro- ducts through the portal vein and liver and thus protect the liver from the ensuing damaging inflammation which then results in downregulation of insulin signaling in adi- pose tissue thereby decreasing fat accumulation 80. thus it seems that scfas are beneficial for hepatic health if the body is receiving a balanced diet whereas they exag- gerate steatosis when extra calories are consumed.

genetics of alcoholic liver disease and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

