turk j gastroenterol 2017 28 327-8nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and gut microbiota future perspectives on probiotics in metabolic liver diseasesyusuf yilmaz12 fatih eren231department of gastroenterology marmara university school of medicine istanbul turkey2marmara university institute of gastroenterology istanbul turkey3department of medical biology marmara university school of medicine istanbul turkeysee determination of certain bacterial groups in gut microbiota and endotoxin levels in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis on page 361-9.nonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld a clinical spectrum that encompasses simple steatosis and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis nash is a leading cause of chronic liver disease in the industrialized world 1. the increasing prevalence rates of obesity metabolic syndrome and diabetes mellitus increase the risk for developing nafld 2. while only a small proportion of patients with simple steatosis the ear- liest form of nafld eventually progress to nash with hepatic inflammation and fibrosis the recent increase in nafld rates is such that even a small proportion of patients who develop nash-related complications cardiovascular disease advanced fi- brosis cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma will lead to a significant burden to the healthcare system 34. these epidemiological trends are particularly concerning given the increasing effect of nafld on the rates of hepatocellular carcinoma and end-stage liver disease thus leading to the need for liver trans- plantation 1. while new therapeutic agents that target nash are under investigation widely available therapies are not expected in the near future.

thus lifestyle interventions diet and physical activityex- ercise continue to remain the cornerstone for clini- cally managing patients in the spectrum of nafld 5. although several mechanisms are expected to underlie the preventive and therapeutic effects of lifestyle interventions in nafld it has been recently hypothesized that a regular healthy balanced diet can also have a positive effect on the composition and function of the gut microbiota 6.the gut microbiota the term used to indicate the bacterial composition of the human digestive tract has been most extensively studied in the distal colon.

owing to the close associa- tion among diet gut and the liver it is not surprising that all nafld stages have been linked to dysbiosis of the gut microbiota both in animal models and clini- cal studies 8-10. via a quantitative polymerase chain reaction qpcr approach the study published in the current issue of the turkish journal of gastroenterol- ogy investigated the differences in the gut microbi- ota between patients with biopsy-proven nash and healthy controls.

first the gut microbiota of patients with nash was characterized by significantly decreased akkermansia muciniphila and increased enterobacteriaceae proportions com- pared with that of healthy controls even after statisti- cal adjustment for age and body mass index.

hopefully a more in-depth knowledge of the gut microbiota in patients with nash could ultimately lead to new targeted preventive approaches.

second patients with significant fibrosis f2 had significantly higher enterobacteriaceae proportions compared with patients with nomild fibrosis f0f1.

fecal bacterial populations in adults have been esti- mated to comprise 1013-1014 microorganisms with ap- proximately 1100 prevalent species notably the gene content in gut microbiota is at least 150-fold higher than the human genome 7. disruption of a stable and diverse microbial community termed dysbiosis has been shown to have a profound impact on dif- ferent disease conditions.

a. muciniphila will positively modulate the microbiota through the production of antiinflammatory molecules with potential hepatoprotective properties.referencesyounossi zm koenig ab abdelatif d fazel y henry l wymer m. global epidemiology of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease-meta- analytic assessment of prevalence incidence and outcomes.

houghton d stewart cj day cp trenell m. gut microbiota and life- style interventions in nafld.

nature 2010 464 59-65. gangarapu v yildiz k ince at baysal b. role of gut microbiota obe-sity and nafld.

turk j gastroenterol 2014 25 133-40. clau e carvalho d freitas p. gut microbiota association with nafld and metabolic disturbances.

proc natl acad sci u s a 2013 110 9066-71. festi d schiumerini r eusebi lh marasco g taddia m colecchiagut microbiota and metabolic syndrome.

third se- rum endotoxin and high-sensitivity c-reactive protein levels were significantly higher in patients with nashaddress for correspondence yusuf yilmaz e-mail c copyright 2017 by the turkish society of gastroenterology  available online at  doi 10.5152tjg.2017.030817327yilmaz and eren.

finally bifidobacterium infantis was found in the feces of patients with nash but not in those of healthy controls.the depletion of a. muciniphila the sole intestinal representa- tive of the verrucomicrobia in human feces is associated with a reduction in the protective inner mucus layer ultimately re- ducing the intestinal barrier integrity and promoting bacterial component and endotoxin leakage from the gastrointestinal tract to the liver.

j med biochem 2015 34 13-7.yilmaz y. review article is non-alcoholic fatty liver disease a spec- trum or are steatosis and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis distinct conditions aliment pharmacol ther 2012 36 815-23. bhala n jouness ri bugianesi e. epidemiology and natural history of patients with nafld.

