c 2017 optical society of americaocis codes 170.5120 photoacoustic imaging 170.3880 medical and biological imaging.the human gastrointestinal tract houses a huge microbial ecosystem for example the gut microbiota which is partially responsible for maintaining human health 1. the gut microbiota regulates multiple host metabolic pathways enabling an interactive host-microbiota metabolism immune- inflammation and virus clearance 2. the microbiome imbalances are attributable to certain diseases including bacte- rial infections autoimmune and allergic diseases metabolic diseases obesity autism and colorectal cancer crc 3-7. meanwhile the human gut microbiota is a legitimate therapeutic target to prevent and treat various diseases 8.probiotics confer a healthy effect on the host by modifying the equilibrium of its gut microbiota 9. the most frequently used bacterial genus is lactic bacteria mainly lactobacillus and bifidobacterium.

thus the pa image effectively identified and distinguished a live gut microbe labeled with near-infrared dyes ex vivo.in this letter we applied pai to identify and quantify the different species of gut microbiota.

figure 3d demonstrated that the percentage of lactobacillus-icg was 62.5 versus 64.2. pa concentration versus uv-vis concentration p  0.05 and the percentage of e. coli-pb was 37.5 versus 35.8 pa concentration versus uv-vis concentration p  0.05. the deviation of the mixed microbe ration from pai was just 0.35 compared to the uv-vis concentration.we isolated the intestine and colorectal tract from a normal mouse and cleared them with normal saline.

to the best of our knowledge pa was applied for the first time for gut bacteria imaging in vitro and ex vivo.the bacterial detection scheme by pai was illustrated in fig.

c pa image of mixed bacteria with dyes.d corresponding pa intensity of mixed bacteria with dyes.where e1 and e2 are the absorption coefficients of 150 mle.

figure 4 showed that the pa method was effective to image and identify the gut microbe.

in this letter we explored a novel imaging technique to detect the intestinal microbe.photoacoustic pa imaging pai has rapidly expanded for extensive biomedical applications 13-17. upon absorption of a short laser pulse the spatial distribution of the acoustic tran- sient pressure inside the tissue that acts as the initial source for the acoustic waves is simultaneously produced with thermoelas- tic expansion.

in this letter we explored the photoacoustic imaging pai technique to characterize the composition and quantify the propor- tions of the gut microbes after optical probe labeling.

our experimental results demonstrated that pai has the potential to identify different gut bacterial species on the spot.

1. hemispherical pai was applied for gut bacteria identifica- tion and intestine morphology imaging.0146-959217152938-03 journal c 2017 optical society of americarepetition rate of 20 hz.

gut microbiota could be effectively identified by pai both in vitro and ex vivo.although current bacterial analysis technologies are precise there are still some limitations.

these results implied that pai was a noninvasive and high-resolution method to identify the gut microbiota especially the ratio of probiotics and pathogen bacteria.

pai can reach a penetration depth of centi- meters while retaining high spatial resolution in biological tissue based on endogenous or exogenous contrast agents 18-20. it can be used for tumor diagnosis drug delivery and chemotherapy response monitoring at a very early stage and for noninvasive tracing of the kinetics of exogenous agents in blood circulation of the liver and spleen 21.in our letter we proposed pai aided with a probe labeling technique for bacteria identification and quantification fig.

4. pai of intestine after injection with mixed bacteria at a 720 and b 800 nm respectively in gray and color.no significant difference based on pai and uv-vis absorption.

128 ultrasonic transducers a592s-sm olympus japan which can simultaneously receive pa signals were spirally distributed on the surface of the bowl.

