the within-sample a-phylogenetic diver- sity observed species was significantly higher in the nopal rats compared to the hf group  p  0.043. using the linear discriminant analysis lda effect size lefse method  we identified more specific bacterial taxa whose relative abundance varied significantly among cecal samples taken from the hf and hf  nopal groups.

nopal consumption increased intestinal intestinal mrna expression of genes involved in inflammation in sprague-dawley rats fed nf nf  nopal hf or hf  nopal diets for 10 wk with 12 h of fasting.data are presented as mean - sem n  5-14p  0.05.doi10.1371journal.pone.0171672.t003the addition of nopal to the nf and hf diets reduces ros in the cecum and colon irrespective of the amount of fat.

moreover intestinal inflammation and an increase in adiposity in response to ingestion of a hf diet are seen in conventionally raised but not germ-free mice suggesting that gut microbiota are key players in shaping the phenotypic response to a hf diet .

after 4 weeks rats on the two diets were then divided into 2 subgroups to consume either nf or nf  nopal n  5 for each group and hf or hf  nopal diet for 6 weeks n  14 for each group.

both nf and nf  nopal diets provided3.8 kcalg of energy 72 carbohydrate 18 protein 10 fat whereas hf and hf  nopal provided 4.6 kcalg of energy 36 carbohydrate 18 protein 46 fat.

for measure- ments where only hf and hf  nopal groups were evaluated i.e.

weight gain energy intake fasting serum glucose triglyceride cholesterol and adiponectin concentration of sprague-dawley rats fed nf nf  nopal hf or hf  nopal diet for 10 wk.data are presented as mean - sem n  5-14p  0.05.doi10.1371journal.pone.0171672.t002effect of nopal ingestion on adipocyte and liver physiologydietary fat and nopal consumption had no effect on overall weight gain .

the fre- quency distribution of adipocyte cell surface area also differed between hf and hf  nopal rats.

the adipose tissue of rats fed a hf diet had a higher percentage of cells with a higher surface area compared with the rats fed the hf  nopal diet.

approximately 67 of cells had a surface area greater than 4000 mm2 in hf fed rats whereas in the hf  nopal fed group only 48 of cells had a surface area greater than 4000 mm2 .histological analysis of liver sections using hematoxylin-and-eosin staining showed a nor- mal morphology with no apparent indication of hepatic steatosis in any of the groups .

in particular glucose p  0.06 was lower in the hf  nopal group compared with the hf group which is consistent with glucose measurement using the enzymatic colorimetric assay.

these correlations are particularly interesting as betaine has been used in several human and animal studies as a dietary strategy to ameliorate hepatic steatosis and improve markers of liver injury  .other serum metabolites that changed when rats consuming a hf diet ingested nopal included arginine p  0.02 asparagine p  0.06 threonine p  0.008 creatinine p  0.02 dimethylsulfone p  0.008 and myo-inositol p  0.008 which were all significantly higher as well as methanol p  0.02 and taurine p  0.06 which were significantly lower .effect of nopal ingestion on intestinal inflammation and oxidative stressit has been previously reported that hf diet can lead to oxidative stress and inflammation in the intestine  .

thus relative abundance of reactive oxygen species ros the activity of mpo as a marker of neutrophil infiltration and the expression of genes involved in effect of nopal consumption on adipocyte morphology a representative photographs with 100x magnification of he stained sections of subcutaneous adipose tissue from rats fed nf nf  nopal hf or hf  nopal.

rats fed the nopal diets nf  nopal and hf  nopal had lower levels of ros in both the cecal and colonic mucosa compared with rats fed nf and hf diets respectively .

in addition cecal mpo activity was significantly lower in hf nopal compared to hf fed rats .

