we hypothesize that intramammary administration of a broad-spectrum antimicrobial might favor the overgrowth of specific organisms and incite a shift in the microbial profile of milk from normal quarters.therefore the objectives of this study were to generate knowledge on the complex microbial ecology and treatment of mastitis more specifically a describe the milk microbiome before during and after the infection of bovine mammary glands with a strain of e. coli previously isolated from a mastitis case b compare microbial populations between infected and non-in- fected quarters and c evaluate the impact of a third- generation cephalosporin on both healthy and mastitic milk.methodschallenge strainthe strain used in this study e. coli ecc-z  cornell university hereafter referred as c1 was iso- lated from a clinical case of bovine mastitis and was proven effective in previous experimental challenges to result in mild to moderate cases of clinical mastitis before an experimental challenge frozen stocks of the strain were activated in luria-bertani lb broth incubated at 37 degc for 12 h and subse- quently streaked on a mcconkey plates for e. coli colony isolation.

effect of intramammary infection with e. coli and intramammary antimicrobial therapy on cfu resultsintramammary infection with e. coli significantly in- creased logcfus p  0.0001 intramammary treat- ment with ceftiofur significantly decreased logcfus in challenged infected quarters p  0.0001. tukey- adjusted comparisons in each sampling time revealed that ceftiofur-treated quarters had significantly lower logcfus at 78 84 102 108 120 126 132 144 and150 h relative to challenge fig.

the most abundant families in pre-challenge samples were ruminococcaceae mean 16.8 stddev 10.1 lachnospir- aceae mean 7.0 stddev 5.1 aerococcaceae mean 6.8 stddev 8.2 enterobacteriaceae mean 6.3 stddev13.5 planococcaceae mean 5.7 stddev 9.5 bacter-oidaceae mean 5.4 stddev 3.3 corynebacteriaceaemean 5.1 stddev 7.3 clostridiaceae mean 4.2stddev 3.1 bacillaceae mean 3.5 stddev 3.7 andstaphylococcaceae mean 2.8 stddev 4.9.effect of experimental infection with e. coli and intramammary antimicrobial therapy on milk microbiome intramammary infection with e. coli dramatically changed the milk microbial profile.

therefore detailed informa- tion on the effect of treatment of escherichia coli mastitis with third-generation cephalosporins is indispensable.our group has recently described the dynamics ofmilk microbiome upon antimicrobial treatment with ceftiofur in animals naturally infected with mastitis pathogens  in that study cows from a commer- cial dairy farm were enrolled upon diagnosis of clin- ical mastitis and randomly allocated to receive extended intramammary therapy with ceftiofur or to receive no treatment.

3 effect of intramammary infection with e. coli and subsequent treatment with ceftiofur hydrochloride 48 72 96 120 and 144 h on relative abundance of the 25 most prevalent families in unchallenged untreated quarters a n  11 in unchallenged ceftiofur-infused quarters b n  5 in challenged untreated quarters c n  3 and in challenged and ceftiofur-treated quarters d n  5. black diamonds represent experimental infection with 100 cfu of e. coli and grey circles represent intramammary treatment with ceftiofura 100unchallenged untreatedchallenged untreated unchallenged ceftiofurchallenged ceftiofur806040200b 100unchallengedchallenged80            60  40200c 10080challenged untreated challenged ceftiofur6040200d 10080unchallenged untreatedunchallenged ceftiofur6040200time hoursfig.

moreover the milk microbiome from the affected quarters was indistinguishable fromthe adjacent healthy quarters within 14 days following the onset of the disease regardless of intramammary antimicrobial administration.herein we describe a challenge model using a known strain of mastitis-causing e. coli to characterize the microbiome before during and after intramammary infection in a controlled setting.

although other immune parameters were not evaluated in the current study the numerical increase in somatic cell count in unchallenged quarters after intramammary infection with e. coli observed here is in agreement with jensen et al.

milk sam- ples were collected every 12 h during the 3 days that preceded intramammary infection with e. coli strain c1 henceforth indicated as time 0 and every 6 h from live challenge with e. coli until the ninth day after infection with the last time point being at216 h post-challenge.

microbiome 2017 574doi 10.1186s40168-017-0291-5normal milk microbiome is reestablished following experimental infection with escherichia coli independent of intramammary antibiotic treatment with a third-generation cephalosporin in bovineserika k. ganda1 natalia gaeta2 anja sipka1 brianna pomeroy1 georgios oikonomou13 ynte h. schukken145 and rodrigo c. bicalho1backgroundmastitis is a prevalent costly disease in dairy cows that is defined by an increase in milk somatic cell count scc as a result of inflammation in the mammary gland leading to abnormal milk and varying degrees of clinical severity.

bacterial isolation and strain typingthe c1 strain of e. coli used for intramammary infection was isolated from milk samples collected post-challenge from every challenged quarter except the three quarters that presented elevated scc on the days preceding intramammary infusion of bacteria which were excluded from further analysis.

nevertheless bacterial growth in samples collected from both control and treated quarters presented a decrease in cfu counts over time.effect of intramammary infection with e. coli on somatic cell count measured as linear scoresintramammary infusion with 100 cfu of e. coli in- creased scc as early as 6 h post-challenge peaking around 18 h and remaining significantly higher when compared to unchallenged quarters until the end of the study period p  0.0001 fig.

1 experimental challenge timeline a. schematic of challenge and treatment in each quarter b. effect of intramammary infection with e. coli and treatment with ceftiofur hydrochloride 48 72 96 120 and 144 h on temperature c. california mastitis test cmt results d. rapd strain typing results.

in addition our data follows the reasoning of burvenich  which stated that the severity and outcome of e. coli mastitis are cow-dependent rather than entirely pathogen-dependent however it is important to highlight that in our study we have evaluated infection with a single-characterized strain of e. coli.

using multivariate analysis of weighted unifrac distances and anosim we demonstrate that the milk microbiome returns to a simi- lar state to that of unchallenged quarters 9 days after experimental intramammary infection with e. coli re- gardless of receiving antimicrobial therapy.

this was an interesting finding given thatalterations in the flora of healthy individuals exposed to antimicrobials favoring the blooming of pathogenic bacteria have been described  previous reports of mastitis outbreaks following blitz therapy  which consists in intramammary treatment of all lactating animals in the herd for elimination of a contagious pathogen led us to hypothesize that shifts in the microbiome of healthy milk would occur in consequence to antimicrobial exposure as it has been observed in other niches nevertheless intriguing work by zaura and colleagues  have reported a surprising resilience of the salivary microbiome upon exposure to different antimicrobials.

