therapies that restore the gut micro- biota following chemotherapy or antibiotics could provide a means to break this cycle of infection and treatment failure.antimicrobial resistance in cancer patients a lethal combination bloodstream infections are a major threat to the lives of patients with cancer causing death in approximately 10 of patients .

we propose a model in which chemotherapy contributes directly to the emergence of antimi- crobial resistance in cancer patients through both the disruption of the commensal gut microbiota and by driving bacterial mutagenesis and horizontal gene transfer.gut pathogens an important cause of sepsis in cancer patientscancer patients not only have a high mortality from individual episodes of sepsis but suffer disproportionately from sepsis compared to the general population .

these findings suggest that selective killing of commensal anaerobes occurs with certain chemotherapeutics allowing the expansion of potentially pathogenic enterococci and enterobacteriaceae.dna damage activates the bacterial sos response to drive 126tddifde novomutationmany chemotherapeutic agents are likely to increase mutagenesis in bacteria and the emer- gence of de novo antimicrobial resistance by activating the bacterial sos response.

the formation of dna cross-links is a strong inducer of the sos response in bacteria and mitomycin c is frequently used as a positive control in sos responses studies .

interestingly antibiotics frequently used as prophylaxis against infection in patients with haematological malignancy - trimethroprim sulfamethoxazole and ciprofloxa- cin - are also the strongest activators of the sos response .

timi 1515 1-8opinionnot just antibiotics is cancerchemotherapy driving antimicrobial resistancelito e. papanicolas3 the global spread of antibiotic-resistant pathogens threatens to increase the mortality of cancer patients significantly.

fluoroquinolone antibiotic prophylaxis which is partially cred- ited for reductions in gram-negative sepsis and mortality in cancer patients is in many places now largely ineffective due to widespread resistance .

the increased risk of sepsis in cancer patients has been attributed to myelosuppression see  mucositis and the use of central venous catheters cvcs .

in patients with haematological malignancy this may be due to the diseases itself but many chemotherapeutic agents will also cause transient neutropaenia.

yy 1c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.the important contribution of the gut microbiota to the development of sepsis in cancer patients is highlighted by the common isolation of the causative pathogen from both stool and blood during bloodstream infection .

through the longitudinal analysis of faecal microbial diversity in 94 haematological stem cell transplant patients using high-throughput 16s rrna gene sequencing taur et al.

showed a marked reduction in intestinal bacterial diversity in a majority of patients with 30 of faecal samples dominated by a single bacterial genus .

for example patients exhibiting enterococcal domination of the gut microbiota had a ninefold increase in the risk of vancomycin-resistant enterococcus vre bacteraemia while proteobacterial domination increased the risk of gram-negative bacteraemia fivefold .

in total 50 of patients with bacteraemia demonstrated intestinal domination with a corresponding organism with the median time between intestinal domina- tion and bacteraemia a mere 7 days .commensal gut bacteria prevent pathogen overgrowth and reduce gut inflammationthe ability of commensal gut microbiota to prevent the expansion of pathogen populations is termed colonisation resistance.

when assessing the effects of chemotherapy on intestinal microbiota composition in humans patients receiving myeloablative multidrug chemotherapy for hae- matological malignancy are so far the best studied group .

