during the growth of dairy starter bacteria which are typically lactic acid bacteria lab in milk the initial metabolism of lactose results in the formation of glucosetable 1traditional fermented dairy products along with the particular associated microorganismsproductnameorigin of milk principal kind or mostly utilizedtype of startersome associated microorganisms involved infermentationcheeseany variety of cheesesany kind of milk buffalo camel cow goats mare sheeptraditional and commercialvarious including lactococcuslactis lc.

human cultures across the globe have been consuming fermented dairy products for millennia exploiting the biochemical action of microorganisms naturally present in the raw milk microorganisms that are in the surface of containers in which the dairy foods are placed or through a process known as back-slopping whereby some of the material from a previous fermentation is employed to inoculatefresh substrate .

in addition these investigations have also high- lighted that cheese can provide valuable model systems for microbial ecology studies  including the shaping of microbial communities through horizontal gene transfer .fermented milksfermented milk is produced through the coagulation of milk without the elimination of serum by bacterial cultures that generally remain present until consumption.

these and other health-promoting features combined with a view of fermented foods as 'natural' has further increased the popularity of fermen- ted dairy foods  such as yogurts fermented or cultured milks kefir acidophilus milk koumiss curd buttermilk and cheeses.

as was demonstrated in a recent study of lactic acid bacteria isolated from a range of traditional greek dairy products such products can also be a valuable source of novel strains with different health-promoting proper- ties .cheese is the most popular fermented milk product.

yak cow and mares' milk are used for the production of some fermented dairy drinks.

camel's milk is also used for the production of gariss a traditional sudanese raw fermented dairy product .buttermilk was originally produced as a by-product of butter making and contains protein phospholipids fat lactose and minerals.

one recent genomics-based investigation has revealed considerable variability among the genomes of leuconostoc cultures commonly used by the dairy indus- try .many fermented dairy foods are produced by the com- bined actions of lab and fungi.

other promising new approaches include single-cell amplification techniques for analysing the microbiota that in the future will highlight rare species in fermented foods that are of biotechnological interest and can be used to monitor changes in dairy food microbiomes conclusionthe combined use of culture-dependent and culture- independent approaches have provided novel insights into the complexity and benefits of microbes present in fermented dairy products.

bulgaricus this fermented milk contains lb.

these additional cultures allow fast acidifi- cation and extensive proteolysis  a traditional milk fermented with lb.

shubat or chal is a traditional fermented camel's milk that is generated through the action of lb.

some examples include specific studies demon- strating the impact of kefir consumption on bone mineral density and bone metabolism  evidence of a reduced risk of type 2 diabetes associated with yogurt consump- tion  and investigations revealing that a fermented milk product containing a variety of microorganisms affects the activity of brain regions that control emotion and sensation .

these are produced by the fermentation of different types of milk by specific microorganisms or complex microbial communities.

bulgaricus are typically used to convert milk into yogurt.

