table 1 continueddiseasetype of study year number of patientstype  detailsfollow-upoutcomeauthorchronic hepatitis bneuropsychiatric disordersmultiple sclerosiscase series2011 3multiple sclerosis patients treated withfmt for constipationup to15 yearsall patients experienced progressive improvement in neurological symptoms and regained the ability to walk 2 patients had restoration of urinary function 1 showed halting of disease progression for 15 years post-fmtborody et al.

of 18 patients with persistently positive hbeag despite chronic antiviral therapy was assigned to receive fmt 5 patients or continue antiviral therapy alone 13 patients.dig dis sci 2017 621131-11451139the fmt patients showed a significant change in their gut microbiome compared to baseline and this was associated with a significant decrease in hbeag titer which was fur- ther declined after an additional fmt.

indeed fmt has been demonstrated to be effective to some extent in ibd patients and is being extensively studied by many groups using various proto- cols that differ from each other by the inclusion criteria of patients inflamednon-inflamed disease extent and loca- tion number of fmts performed fmt preparation methods and delivery donor characteristics etc.

pouchitiscase report1992 1chronic constipation retention enemas18 monthslong-term cureandrews et al.metabolic syndromedouble-blind placebo- controlled trial2012 18male patients with metabolic syndrome 9 patients received lean donor fmt  9 received autologous fmtweeksimproved insulin sensitivity increased gut microbial diversity increased scfasvrieze et al.

a recent prospective trial of fmt delivered via pouchoscopy to 9 patients with acute and chronic pouchitis at one-month post-fmt data for 7 patients showed a 71 improvement in symptoms .

all 3 patients experienced progressive improvement in neurological symptoms and regained the ability to walk 2 patients had restoration of urinary function and disease progression was halted in one patient.borody et al.

an observational study involving autistic patients reported a remission of autistic symptoms in 2 patients post-fmt .

indeed recurrent infections in these patients ceased once these bacteria had been eradicated.although these studies do not provide strong enough evidence for the routine use of fmt in patients colonized with highly resistant bacteria and suffering from recurrent infections they do provide the proof of concept required to conduct large randomized controlled trials designed to explore the effectiveness of fmt in these clinical settings.

performing fmt in these patients demonstrated that microbial alterations of post- fmt are durable mostly safe and carry relatively few side effects  .variations in the gut microbiota have been found to be associated with many diseases both intra- and extrain- testinal such as such as inflammatory bowel disease ibd obesity cardiovascular disease autism inflammatory arthritis and multiple sclerosis -.

all results irrelevant to the search topic were excluded as were articles describing the use of fmt in cdi and ibd.this search yielded 214 articles out of which 148 were not relevant to the research topic and 51 were studies describing cdi or ibd patients.

first reported such success in a case series of 55 patients who underwent fmt via retention enema.

in their series 36 of the ibs patients were cured and 16 reported symptomatic relief after a follow-up period of up to a year.

one series included 45 patients with chronic constipation and the reported results showed an 89 immediate symptomatic improvement and a 60 long- term up to 19 months response rate .

the other study consisted of 6 patients all of whom experienced long-term up to 28 months restoration of normal bowel movement .

the patients in both these case series received fmt via123dig dis sci 2017 621131-11451133fig.

