of course it is also possible that il-1bmay recruit either or both nf-jb and mapk pathways in npcs atany given stage of neurogenesis depending of the concentration of il-1b the duration of its exposure or indeed the time during the lifespan at which il-1b is exposed to the hippocampal npcs.

thus as well as influencing the function of mature neurons il-1b can directly influence npcs via interaction with il-1r1 on both embryonic and adult npcs  .

il-1b has been shown to negatively impact upon the proliferation differentiation and sur- vival of hippocampal npcs in cultures of rat hippocampal npcs .

furthermore co-treatment of hippocampal npcs with il-1b and il-1ra or sirna to inhibit il- 1r1 expression restored nr2e1 expression in hippocampal npcs .

during pro-liferation with mapk signalling mediating the il-1b-induced changes in more mature npcs and synaptic integration.evidence for il-1b-induced nf-jb signalling in proliferatingnpcs has been demonstrated due to the fact that inhibition of the nf-jb pathway and not p38mapk in mice was sufficient toprevent the anti-proliferative effects of il-1b in hippocampal npcs in vivo .

these questions can only be answered with further research.as il-1b appears to regulate different signalling pathways within npcs depending on what stage of neurogenesis they are in mitigating these effects will require manipulating factors that can also regulate multiple processes and pathways within npcs.

we discuss their potential to be therapeutic targets for neuroinflammatory disorders affecting hippocampal neurogenesis and associated cognitive function.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.contentsers and neurogenesis404ers and il-1b signalling interaction in hippocampal npcs4048.nr2e1 tlx405nr2e1 and neurogenesis405nr2e1 and il-1b signalling interaction in hippocampal npcs4059.conclusions406acknowledgments406references406introductionhippocampal neurogenesis is a process by which neurons are born from neural progenitor cells npcs and it is now known to occur from embryonic development throughout adulthood.

it is possible that an increase in cell proliferation in response to il-1b leads to a phe- notypic shift towards astrocyte rather than neuronal production as has been previously demonstrated in response to il-1b in primary cultures of rat npcs .

however the question remains - can manipulating these regulators of neurogenesis pre- vent the negative effects of il-1b on hippocampal neurogenesis and associated cognitive function this review aims to address this question by firstly highlighting aspects of hippocampal neurogen- esis that are regulated by both nrs and il-1b and secondly by exploring any signalling overlap between nrs and il-1b with a view to identifying therapeutic targets for neurological or psychi- atric disorders where deficits in hippocampal associated cognition is evident.hippocampal neurogenesiswithin the adult brain of many mammalian species including rodents and non-human primates neurogenesis occurs in two specific regions known as neurogenic niches namely the subven- tricular zone svz of the lateral ventricles and the subgranular zone sgz of the dg in the hippocampus  .

the distinctions between npcs and nscs are not yet clearly defined yet it is thought that npcs are an intermediary between nscs and differentiated cells and have a more limited capacity for self-renewal compared to nscs  .

despite these differences individual adult npcs have been shown to undergo all of the same cellular processes as embryonic npcs during developmental neurogenesisi.e.

notwithstanding these discrepancies highlight the importance of assessing not only the proliferation status of npcs but also their differentiation phe- notype as only the complete progression from proliferating npcs to integrated mature neurons represents successful neurogenesis.

the expres- sion of p52 p65 p50 and cbp has been reported in npcs from embryonic and rat forebrain where they have been shown to beinvolved in a range of processes such as proliferation of npcs and regulation of the effects of environmental enrichment on neu- rogenesis  .

as npcs begin to express the immature neuronal marker doublecortin dcx the expression of gr within these cells is significantly reduced but is restored again once the npcs mature into neurons  .

specifically ppar deficient npcs failed to proliferate whereas treatment with thepparc agonist rosiglitazone induced cell growth and inhibited dif-ferentiation of npcs into neuronal cells .

