similar to the results shown in b the non-cohoused nod2--nod mice had significantly reduced t1dm incidence compared to non-cohoused nod2ththnod mice 33.3 vs. 86.7 p 0.002 c. however when the nod2--nod and nod2ththnod mice were cohoused the incidence of tidm was increased in nod2--nod mice and indistinguishable from the nod2ththnod counterparts which had reduced incidence of diabetes c. to assess disease severity we also investigated the islet infiltration in 12-week old mice and found that nod2--nod mice had exacerbated islet infiltration when cohoused with wt nod2ththnod mice d. these results sug- gested that the gut microbiota affected t1dm development.diabetes susceptibility is modulated by altered gut microbiota in nod2-deficient nod micewe conducted further studies using non-littermate mice from nod2--nod breeding or nod2ththnod breeding that were housed together cohoused or separately non-cohoused at weaning.

we found that in the absence of nod2 co-housing led to a significant increase of ifng-producing cd8th t-cells in pps of nod2--nod mice compared with non-cohoused nod2--nod or cohoused nod2thth nod mice a. interestingly a lower percentage of splenic il- 17a-producing cd4th t-cells was seen in nod2--nod micewhereas co-housing significantly increased the percentage of il- 17a-producing cd4th t-cells in pln and pps of nod2--nod mice compared with non-cohoused nod2--nod or nod2ththnod mice b. sfb have been shown to induce il17-expressing t cells .

this was supported by the results from three sets of experiments i cohousing nod2--nod with nod2ththnod mice littermates or non-littermates ii investigating the roleof nod2 in non-cohoused nod2--nod mice in which diabetes development was significantly reduced iii reconstitution of gut microbiota from nod2--nod or nod2ththnod to germ-free nod mice.the diabetes incidence differences in nod2--nod mice when living with different housing partners strongly supports the role of gut microbiota.

this however suggests that the subtle changes in the microbiota of nod2-sufficient mice over time may protect the mice from developing diabetes c.we identified that candidatus arthromitus and ruminococcus which are of the phylum firmicutes and adlercreutzia of the phylum actinobacteria were significantly increased in cohoused nod2--nod mice compared with non-cohoused nod2--nod mice c d g. however in the co-housed nod2ththnod mice there was a significantly decreased frequency of candidatus arthromitus compared to non-cohoused nod2ththnod mice c. a similar trend was also noted in other genera including coprobacillus f. interestingly the effect of housing the mice had a stronger impact on the microbiota compared with the nod2 gene effect where only oscillospira showed a trend towards a gene effect being increased in nod2--nod mice e.to test if sfb contribute to the disease protection in nod2--nodwe examined the abundance of sfb by qpcr in the fecal samples of nod2-deficient or nod2-sufficient nod mice both co-housed and housed separately.

pp- residing igg2b-expressing b-cells were also influenced by cohous- ing as non co-housed nod2--nod mice had lower levels of igg2b- expressing b-cells compared to co-housed nod2--nod mice c. further igg1-expressing b-cells were increased in the pp in ch wt nod2ththnod mice when compared to ch nod2--nod mice d. together these data suggest that the altered microbiota induced by cohousing affect the mucosal antibody responses.effect of nod2 on t-cellsto investigate if nod2 affects t-cell function we examined cytokine expression of t-cells from spleen pln and pps.

secreted cytokines in the supernatants of the treg suppression assays revealed a significant increase in anti-inflammatory il-10 associ- ated with nod2 deficiency d. similar results were seen in an autoantigen-specific treg suppression assay data not shown.direct effect of gut microbiota on t-cell functionto confirm if the housing-dependent change in gut microbiota was responsible for the different immune responses in the nod2--nod mice we stimulated splenocytes from 2-month old femalenod2--nod and nod2ththnod mice with heat-inactivated colonic bacteria of nod2--nod or nod2ththnod mice.

interestingly the gut bacteria regardless of the donor appeared to suppress il-17a-producing cd4th t-cells b and we did not find direct effects of gut bacteria on tnf-a or il-10-producing t- cells in vitro data not shown.taken together our results suggest nod2--nod mice had a distinct gut microbiota composition compared with nod2ththnod mice and that the variance in components of gut microbiota altered the immune cell function which modulates t1dm susceptibility.to further prove the concept we colonized germ-free gf nod mice with feces from 4 to 5 week old nod2--nod or nod2ththnod mice that were housed separately.

finally colonizing germ-free nod mice with nod2--nod gut microbiota significantly reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine- secreting immune cells but increased t-regulatory cells.

to investigate the role of nod2 in a t1dm model we generated nod mice deficient in nod2 nod2--nod.

they were backcrossed to nod mice for 10 generations and the purity of the nod genetic background was further confirmed by mouse genome scan dartmouse.

three types of experimental breeding and four types of experi- mental housing strategies were applied in this study as summa- rized in supplementary table 1. in the cohoused group ch equal numbers 2 2 or 3 3 of nod2ththnod and nod2--nod mice were housed in the same cage whereas non-cohoused nch mice refers to nod2ththnod and nod2--nod mice housed by genotype i.e.

diabetes was confirmed by blood glucose of 2250 mgdl 213.9 mmoll.short term and long term co-housingthree to 4-week-old female nod2--nod or nod2ththnod lit- termates were divided into groups whereby nod2ththnod and nod2--nod mice were housed in separate groups or co-housed in cages where the genotypes were mixed.

108 heat-inactivated bacteria were co-cultured with splenocytes 2 106ml from nod2--nod or nod2ththnod mice for 14 h prior to icc.oral gavagefresh fecal pellets were harvested from 4 to 5 week old nod2th thnod or nod2--nod mice housed separately.

in vitro assays were analyzed with student's t-test or anova and p  0.05 was considered significant.resultst1dm incidence in nod2-deficient nod mice was dependent on housing statuswe set up three independent observation groups summarized in supplemental table 1. firstly we investigated spontaneous diabetes in nod2--nod mice and their co-housed ch nod2ththnod littermates all females over 30 weeks from nod2th-breeding.

we found that nod2--nod mice developed diabetes similar to their wt littermates a. secondly to address the role of the gut microbiota as nod2 recognizes the bacterial component muramyl dipeptide we set up another cohort of mice in which nod2--nod and their nod2ththnod female littermates from nod2th- breeding were separately housed i.e.

