This editorial review provides a brief overview of recent developments related to nutrition and the development and management of allergic diseases.Keywords asthma rhinoconjunctivitis eczema food allergy nutrition fatty acids breastfeeding preprobioticIntroductionApproximately 10 of children without an allergic parent or sibling and 20 to 30 of those with allergies in their first-degree relatives experience allergic diseases in infancy.

In this issue a review and an original study discuss the relationship between breastfeeding human breast milk composition and the development of allergic diseases .When avoidance of food allergens is not possible as is the case in infants with cow's milk allergy hydrolyzed formula foods are used in the management of cow's milk allergy to prevent allergic reactions.

J. van Neerven 12 and Huub Savelkoul 13Wageningen University  Research Cell Biology and Immunology 6709 PG Wageningen The Netherlands FrieslandCampina 3818 LE Amersfoort The NetherlandsAllergy Consortium Wageningen 6709 PG Wageningen The NetherlandsCorrespondence Received 6 July 2017 Accepted 12 July 2017 Published 17 July 2017Abstract The development of IgE-mediated allergic diseases is influenced by many factors including genetic and environmental factors such as pollution and farming but also by nutrition.

In the last decade substantial progress has been made in our understanding of the impact that nutrition can have on allergic diseases.

In addition nutrition can also have indirect effects on allergic sensitization.

The prevalence of food allergy is even lower when double blind placebo controlled food challenges DBPCFC are performed but only a limited number of studies have used this method to confirm the diagnosis of food allergy .Nutrients 2017 9 762 doiIt is clear that the development of IgE mediated allergic diseases is influenced by many factors including genetic and environmental factors such as pollution and farming and also by nutrition.

In addition food can also be used as a tool to actively prevent via timing of introduction manage hydrolyzed formula or even treat immunotherapy food allergy Figure .The purpose of this special issue of Nutrients on nutrition and allergic diseases is to provide an overview of how nutrition can modify allergies.

Schematic overview of the influence of nutrition on allergic disease.

Nutrition can--in addition to genetic and environmental factors--play an important role in allergic diseases.

reviewed studies on folic acid supplementation in pregnant women  and noted that folic acid intake may be linked to childhood allergic disease.

