studies are still needed to examine how osa contributes to dysbiosis as well as how dysbiosis is linked to hypertension.potential mechanisms linking osa to gut dysbiosiswhile dysbiosis has been demonstrated in animal models of osa relatively little is known regarding how osa may induce alterations to the gut microbiota.

in this review we will evaluate the relationship between osa and hypertension assess mechanisms by which osa may contribute to gut dysbiosis and hypertension and discuss the potential of the gut microbiota as a viable thera- peutic target in the treatment of osa-induced hypertension.obstructive sleep apneaosa can be defined as periodic cessation apneas or signif- icant reduction in amplitude hypopneas of breathing due to full or partial closure of the upper airway during sleep -.

dysbiosisthis article is part of the topical collection on gut microbiome sympathetic nervous system and hypertensionintroductionobstructive sleep apnea osa is a significant risk factor for systemic hypertension with approximately 50 of osa pa- tients exhibiting hypertension  .

curr hypertens rep 2017 19 35 doi 10.1007s11906-017-0732-3obstructive sleep apnea-induced hypertension role of the gut microbiotadavid j. durgan1published online 1 april 2017 springer sciencebusiness media new york 2017abstractpurpose of review obstructive sleep apnea osa is a signif- icant risk factor for systemic hypertension and other cardio- vascular diseases.

li j zhao f wang y chen j tao j tian g wu s liu w cui q geng b zhang w weldon r auguste k yang l liu x chen l yang x zhu b cai j. gut microbiota dysbiosis contributes to the development of hypertension.

201499656-63. doi.barcelo a esquinas c robles j pierola j de la pena m aguilar i morell-garcia d alonso a toledo n sanchez-de la torre m barbe f. gut epithelial barrier markers in patients with obstructive sleep apnea.

additionally the prevalence of osa is likely to increase considering that obesity and advancing age are two of the main risk factors for osa .acute cardiovascular effects of osaindividual apneic events have profound effects on the cardio- vascular system.

there is significant overlap between osaand hypertension with 50 of osa patients also being hy- pertensive and 30 of hypertensive patients are estimated to have osa   .

these findings suggest that osa precedes and is an independent risk factor for hypertension.treatment of osacurrently the most widely used treatment for osa is contin- uous positive airway pressure cpap.

cih studies often result in oxygen desaturations up to 30 whereas our osa model results in 12 oxygen desaturations and closely mimics desaturation levels ob- served in osa patients   - -.osa patients commonly present with additional comorbid- ities including obesity diabetes or advanced age.

this would suggest that dysbiosis precedes hypertension rather than being a consequence of hypertension.gut dysbiosis and osa-induced hypertensionwhile hypertension is prevalent in osa patients a detailed understanding of how osa is linked to hypertension is lack- ing.

in our rat model of osa we found that 2 weeks of severe osa 60 apneashour did not significantly alter the bp of otherwise healthy rats fed a normal chow diet .

with the understanding that osa patients often have additional metabolic comorbidities we fed rats a hfd for 3 weeks prior to beginning osa.

201667469-74. doi.this article demonstrated that dysbiosis induced by hfd and osa contributed to hypertension in a rat model of osa.

we will discuss potential mechanisms linking osa to gut dysbiosis examine how gut dysbiosis may be linked to hy- pertension and highlight how this understanding may be uti- lized for the development of future therapeutics.keywords obstructive sleep apnea .

