published studies evaluating the ocular system of pelicans include a summary of ophthalmic diagnostic and examination findings in brown pelicans pelecanus occidentalis27 the quantifica- tion of the refractive state in air and water of brown pelicans32 and a clinical description of a penetrating keratoplasty in a juvenile brown pelican whereby a full-thickness donor allograft was placed into a full-thickness defect of a recipient pelican that survived 6 wk postopera- tively.21 to the authors' knowledge no published data exist characterizing ophthalmic examination findings or normal ranges for ophthalmic diag- nostic tests in the american white pelican.the purpose of the present study was to describe ocular examination findings in a collec- tion of zoo-housed american white pelicans and675676journal of zoo and wildlife medicineto define objective ocular diagnostic test param- eters.

however limited data exist to characterize nor- mal ophthalmic examination findings and typical ophthalmic diagnostic test results for most avian species.

all birds were deemed healthy based on a physical examination performed under manual restraint by a board-certified zoo veteri- narian mek before being evaluated by a board- certified veterinary ophthalmologist jwp.basic ophthalmic diagnostics and examinationobjective ophthalmic diagnostic testing was performed in 41 eyes of 21 birds one eye was excluded due to marked phthisis buibi.

a well-demarcated fovea was not consistently visi- ble on indirect ophthalmoscopy but it was detected in the inferior nasal quadrant ou in three birds.approximately half of the birds n 14 11 had anormal ophthalmic examination without any ophthalmic abnormalities detected.

ultimately the hope is that the data provided here will aid in identification and management of ophthalmic diseases in this cap- tive avian species.acknowledgments the authors acknowledge ms. karen clifford for assistance with photo editing and figure construction the bird depart- ment at the saint louis zoo for restraint and handling during ophthalmic evaluations and the animal health department at the saint louis zoo for sample acquisition and processing.literature citedaltschul sf madden tl schaffer aa zhang j zhang z miller w lipman dj.

ocular findings and select ophthalmic diagnostic tests in captive american white pelicans pelecanus erythrorhynchosauthors matthew e. kinney d.v.m.

commercial inquiries or rights and permissions requests should be directed to the individual publisher as copyright holder.bioone sees sustainable scholarly publishing as an inherently collaborative enterprise connecting authors nonprofit publishers academic institutions research libraries and research funders in the common goal of maximizing access to critical research.journal of zoo and wildlife medicine 483 675-682 2017 copyright 2017 by american association of zoo veterinariansocular findings and select ophthalmic diagnostic tests in captive american white pelicans pelecanus erythrorhynchosmatthew e. kinney d.v.m.

a.c.v.o.abstract the aim of this study was to establish normal ophthalmic parameters for select diagnostic tests in american white pelicans pelecanuserythrorhynchos.

twenty-one zoo-housed american white pelicans were manually restrained for noninvasive ocular diagnostic testing and complete ophthalmic examination.

normal variations and ocular abnormalities detected during complete ophthalmic examination were documented and photographed.

ophthalmic abnormalities were noted in 10 of 21 birds.

the most common ophthalmic abnormality in this species was cataracts.key words eye intraocular pressure microbiota ocular pupil.introductionavian species represent a considerable portion of animal collections in zoologic parks worldwide.

descriptive and quantitative ophthalmic studies have been published for some bird orders in an effort to disseminate baseline values in birds commonly maintained in zoologic collections.

correspondence should be directed to dr pearce jacqueline.pearcevca.com.clinicians with normal ophthalmic diagnostic test values in various avian species.

a complete ophthalmic exami- nation including slit-lamp biomicroscopy and indirect ophthalmoscopy was performed without pupillary dilation after objective diagnostic test- ing in all birds n 14 21. extraocular photographs were obtained for all eyes n 14 42.bacterial culture and microbiota characterizationstandard aerobic bacterial culture was per- formed in nine eyes of nine randomly selected birds.

