this directly reflects the expected increase by the diet according to the dose response study see 1. the low dairy fat diet had 18 decrease in c150 which in turn caused a 30 decrease in the participant plasma composition a larger decrease than expected.table 2. the changes in pentadecanoic acid c150 and heptadecanoic acid c170 levels mol from the end of the baseline diet to the end of the experimental diet represented as change in mol.

a homoscedastic t-test was used between two unrelated equal variance groups to identify any significanceinsignificance between them two groups a homosce- dastic t-test was used in the following studies phytol supplementation study controlled diet study stearic acid c180 infusion study and the 2-hydroxyacyl-coa lyase 1 hacl1 study.

the oc-fas and the substrates involved in a-oxidation were inferred in the diets baseline low and high dairy fat diets see supplementary appendix 22. the experimental diets varied from the baseline diet by 82 to 152 for c150 78 to 123 for c170 increased in phytol by 42 in both diets and phytanic acid varied by 102 to 226 from the baseline diet.the participants had plasma collected after the baseline diet and again after the experimental diets the plasma fatty acid changes due to the experimental diet are shown below see 2.in the high dairy fat diet there was a 52 increase in c150 which caused a 22 increase in the plasma c150.

the correlations between circulating c170 and the dietary phytolphytanic acid in the diet are stronger than with the dietary contributions of c170 which suggests that c170 is not a direct ruminant-fat biomarker but actually a product of biosynthesis regulated by dietary substrate intake.in the human dairy fat supplementation study the plasma c150 level increased by 10 p 0031 as a result of a dietary 30 increase this directly concurs with the expected increase according to the ruminant-fat dose response study see 1. however the plasma c170 levels did not change across the supplementation study agrees with previous findings.

to directly investigate upregulation or inhibition of c180 a-oxidation we conducted a phytol supplementation study in mice which is the target substrate for this oxidation pathway.figure 1. comparison between the diet composition and the serum composition mol of pentadecanoic acid c150 and heptadecanoic acid c170 in a dose response study in rats where five groups were subjected to isocaloric high-fat diets with increasing ruminant fat content from 0 to 117. the serum samples were analysed by gas chromatography with mass spectrometry detection.

the dietary combination of phytanic acid and the phytol had a direct inverse correlation with the changes in the plasma c170 as dietary phytanic acid and phytol increases the plasma c170 decreases proportionately which is reinforced by the results in the mouse phytol supplementation study and explains why the smallest difference between c170 in each diet is between diet groups one and two where there is actually the largest difference in c170 levels in plasma.

as shown in supplementary appendix 19 we investigated the diet composition of phytol and phytanic acid comparing these for each diet in the ruminant-fat dose response study in rats.

investigations included an intestinal germ-free study and a c150c170 diet dose response study.

the protocol was approved by the ethics committee of lyonsud-est according to the french 'huriet-serusclat' law and the second declaration of helsinki study registration number nct00905892 20th may 2009 v.controlled diet study.

dietary assessment showed that the participants maintained their habitual diet alongside the supplementation and that the overfeeding intervention led to a substantial increase in ruminant fats see supplementary appendix 21.controlled diet study.

therefore we investigated how these oc-fas correlate with the development of glucose intolerance during a controlled high fat diet in a canine model the canine model was selected due to the sample volume requirements of the study and it has been previously shown that dogs are a suitably comparable model to human glucose intolerance pathology.the glucose and insulin response to an ogtt was determined at baseline and again at the end of a glucose intolerance inducing diet.

results from a sub- set of 64 participants 23 men and 41 women were used for the present analyses see supplementary appendix 14 for participant eligibility and exclusion criteria.the participants consumed a baseline diet for four weeks after which they were randomly assigned to one of two experimental diets high or low dairy-fat diet for a further four weeks the macronutrient composition of the baseline and the experimental diets are shown in supplementary appendix 15. high- low- non-fat dairy products and safflower oil were used to vary fatty acid compositions but maintain total fat content.

signed informed consent was provided and the protocol was reviewed and approved by the institutional review boards of children's hospital  research center at oakland dba university of california san francisco benioff children's hospital oakland and the university of california san francisco study registration number nct01404897 22nd july 2011 v.stearic acid c180 infusion study.

we compared the baseline fatty acid levels with the change in glucose and insulin measured during an oral glu- cose tolerance test after a high fat diet in a suitable canine model the canine model was selected due to the sample volume requirements of the study and it has been previously shown that dogs are a suitably comparable model to human glucose intolerance pathology.

the fatty acid composition of the dietary supplements are shown in supplementary appendix 20. the plasma c150 and c170 fatty acid composition are shown in the table below see 1.due to the human diet supplementation the levels of c150 increased 10. however c170 did not increase from baseline.

