the internal name is meaningless and just randomly generated but it is there to indicate that there areseparate hits.we tested for association between dietary intake of dha and microbiome diversity and found a weaker associa- tion between dha intake and microbiome diversity betase  0.060.03 p  0.0203. as dietary fibre intake positively correlates with the gut microbiome we also ran the analysis adjusting for fibre intake and the results remained consistent supplementary table .in our data we calculated an estimate of microbial beta-diversity using both weighted and unweighted unifrac distancesas implemented in qiimeand used principal coordinate analysis to examine its associations with omega-3 circulating levels but did not find significant patterns data not shown.

linear regression was also employed to investigate the association between otus and dha adjusting for covariates and multiple testing using false discovery rate fdr  0.05. we then calcu- lated the principal coordinates from both weighted and unweighted unifrac distances a measure of microbial beta-diversity as implemented in qiimeto further examine the associations between omega-3 circulating levels and microbiome composition.finally we assessed the correlation between dha circulating levels and faecal metabolites in a sub-analysis of 707 individuals using linear regression adjusting for age bmi family relatedness and multiple testing fdr  0.05. we then tested the associations between the significant faecal metabolites and the previously identified otu adjusting also for dha.referencesortega j. f. et al.

the association remains significant after adjustment for dha however some of the dha associations with these otus are attenuated when adjusting for ncg levels table  suggesting that the correlation between the abundances some of these otus and dha serum levels could be mediated by ncg faecal concentrations.discussionin this study we show in a population based cohort of middle aged and elderly women that circulating levels of omega-3 fatty acids are associated with higher microbiome diversity and with a higher abundance of otus belonging to the lachnospiraceae family.omega-3 levels in humans are determined by dietary intake and by conversion of alpha-linolenic acid ala to dha.

some of the ncg effects may be mediated via arginine which helps maintain intestinal homeostasis preserves the integrity of the intestinal epithelium under stress and prevents intestinal permeability and bacterial translocation .given the beneficial effects of ncg in the mammalian gut part of the explanation for the association between dha and gut microbiome composition might be that the presence of dha favours the production of ncg by the gut microbiota.

openreceived 6 march 2017accepted 7 august 2017 published xx xx xxxxomega-3 fatty acids correlate with gut microbiome diversity and production ofn-carbamylglutamate in middle aged and elderly womencristina menni1 jonas zierer 12 tess pallister1 matthew a. jackson 1 tao long 3 robert p. mohney 4 claire j. steves1 tim d. spector1  ana m. valdes156omega-3 fatty acids may influence human physiological parameters in part by affecting the gut microbiome.

higher gut microbiome diversity is linked to lower inflam- mation  thus our data reinforce the notion that omega-3 fatty acids are linked to lower gut inflammation.we also identified 38 otus associated with circulating levels of dha.

such reports suggest an interaction between microbiome composition and intake of omega-3 fatty acids but a close examination of the links between omega-3 circulating levels and detailed micro- biome composition in non-infant cohorts has not been explored to date.bacterial species including those forming the human gut microbiome are not well defined and bacterial genomes are highly variable.

to further understand the link between dha levels and the gut microbiome we assessed the correlation between dha circulating levels and faecal metabolites measured using commercial metabolomic panel metabolon inc supplementary table  in a subset of 707 individuals with data available.

the resulting taxonomic groupings are known as operational taxonomic units otus and are used consistently within the same experiment.the aim of this study is to assess the association between omega-3 fatty acids serum levels and intake with microbiome composition diversity and with specific otus.resultswe analysed data from 876 female twins with 16 s microbiome data and circulating levels of fatty acids includ- ing dha total omega-3 fatty acids faw3 182 linolenic acid lna total omega-6 fatty acids faw6 total pufa and for comparison we also tested monounsaturated fatty acids 161 181 mufa total saturated fatty acids sfa and total fatty acids totfa measured at the same time point using the brainshake nmr platform.

1044 samples used in the present study the final read depth was 80865 - 35718 mean-sd.the demographic characteristics of the study population are presented in table .the serum circulating levels of the polyunsaturated fatty acids faw3 faw6 lna and dha reflect in part the intake levels we observe a significant correlation between dietary omega-3 fatty acid intake estimates from ffqs and serum levels of faw3 r  0.168 p 2.64 x 10-7.omega-3 and omega-6 associate with microbiome diversity.

analysis of gut microbiota and faecal transfer in mice has revealed that elevated tissue omega-3 fatty acids enhance intestinal production and secretion of intestinal alkaline phosphatase which induces changes in the gut bacteria composition resulting in decreased lipopolysaccharide production and gut permeability and ultimately reduced metabolic endotoxemia and inflammation.a recent randomized controlled clinical trial in an indian population has shown that supplementation with omega 3 plus a probiotic has a greater beneficial effect on insulin sensitivity lipid profile and atherogenic index than the probiotic alone although omega-3 supplementation showed only marginal effects on all the param- eters.

although it is possible that the gut microbiome affects absorption of these fatty acids given that most of the absorption of fatty acids takes place in the small intestine it seems more likely that the link that we observed between dha and microbiome is mediated by circulating dha or by dha incorporated into the large intestines or by other intermediates that dha affects e.g.

the study is one of the very few to investigate the link between microbiome associations and the faecal metabolome.in conclusion our data indicate a strong correlation between omega-3 fatty acids and microbiome com- position and suggest that supplementation with pufas may be considered along with prebiotic and probiotic supplementation aimed at improving the microbiome composition and diversity.

they are also known as potent short-chain fatty acid producers on the other hand we also find members of the ruminococcaceae associated with increased levels of dha and subtypes of some of this family have been implicated in obesity.the anti-inflammatory benefits of omega-3 pufas on gut microbiome composition may be attributed to the products of dha metabolism in particular those resulting from endogenous lipoxygenase-catalyzed hydroxy- lation of dha which in turn produces resolvins and protectin d1 through acetylation of the cyclooxygenase-2 enzyme.

interventional nutritional studies may be required to quantify and dissect the contribution of these two types of dietary components on microbiome com- position and scfa production.table 3. association between gut bacterial operational taxonomic units otus and n-carbamylglutamate ncg in faeces unadjusted unadj and adjusting for dha serum levels adj.

