reviewon type 1 diabetes mellitus pathogenesisstavroula a paschou nektaria papadopoulou-marketou george p chrousos and christina kanaka-gantenbeindivision of endocrinology metabolism and diabetes first department of pediatrics 'aghia sophia' children's hospital medical school national and kapodistrian university of athens athens greececorrespondence should be addressed to c kanaka-gantenbein abstracttype 1 diabetes mellitus t1dm results from the autoimmune destruction of b cells of the endocrine pancreas.

pathogenesis of t1dm is different from that of type 2 diabetes mellitus where both insulin resistance and reduced secretion of insulin by the b cells play a synergistic role.

symptomatic hyperglycemia and frank diabetes occur after a long latency period which reflects the large percentage of b cells that need to be destroyed before overt diabetes become evident.key wordsf type 1 diabetes f pathogenesis f geneticsf autoimmunityf microbiotaintroductiontype 1 diabetes mellitus t1dm represents only around 10 of the diabetes cases worldwide but occurs with increasing incidence much earlier in life.

the main genes predisposing to t1dm are within the major histocompatibility complex mhc region often called hla human leucocyte antigen and located on chromosome 6. hla complex polymorphic alleles are responsible for 40-50 of the genetic risk of t1dm development.

it is present in two common classes the small class 26-63 repeats type i or the big class 140-243 repeats type iii .

type iii is present in approximately 30 of the general population and provides protection from t1dm regardless of the individual hla haplotypes.

these polymorphisms lead to decreased intracellular expression of the protein therefore the inhibition of excessive stimulation and proliferation of t lymphocytes is not inhibited resulting in uncontrolled progression of immune response and autoimmune imbalance  .other genetic associations ptpn22recent studies have shown associations between c1858t arg620trp polymorphism of the ptpn22 protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 22 gene and t1dm as well as other autoimmune disorders.

several snps especially the rs2292239 have been associated with the presence of t1dm as well as the glycemic control of patients with the disease                         .environmental factorsenvironmental factors also play an important role in the pathogenesis of t1dm.

on the other hand there is some experimental evidence that under certain conditions enteroviruses can be also able to protect individuals against t1dm .there was some concern that vaccinations may be related to the subsequent development of chronic autoimmune diseases including t1dm.

however immunization of infants even with genetic predisposition siblings of patients with t1dm does not appear to be associated with an increased risk for development of the disease .diet and gut microbiotathe importance of diet in the development of t1dm remains controversial.

it has been found that patients with t1dm present quantitative and qualitative deficits in tregs which may explain the increased without limits immune response which eventually leads to the autoimmune response    .cellular immunitythe destruction of the b cells of the endocrine pancreas in t1dm occurs most probably via apoptosis a mechanism also known as programmed cell death which includes a cascade of cysteine-asparaginase activations known as caspases.

nutrients 2013 5 3551-3562. nwosu bu  maranda l. the effects of vitamin d supplementation on hepatic dysfunction vitamin d status and glycemic control in children and adolescents with vitamin d deficiency and either type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus.

diabetes 2011 60 3300-3306. jaidane h sane f hiar r goffard a gharbi j geenen v  hober d. immunology in the clinic review series focus on type 1 diabetes and viruses enterovirus thymus and type 1 diabetes pathogenesis.

the influence of type 1 diabetes genetic susceptibility regions age sex and family history to the progression from multiple autoantibodies to type 1 diabetes a teddy study report.

t1dm results from the autoimmune destruction of b cells of the endocrine pancreas.

