even the co-transfer of splenocytes from vsl3- treated nod mice and diabetogenic cells derived from newly diabetic nod mice conferred full protection to irradiated naive nod mice compared to mice that have received splenocytes from pbs-treated mice .

this hypothesis is supported by the fact that the exposure of iga-deficient gf mice to b. thetaiotamicron strongly induced reg3c  whereas reg3c-deficient mice showed high levels of iga cells and a higher intestinal colonization by bacteria associated with adaptive immune response activation in the intestine .

not only supports the hypothesis that nod microbiome is diabetogenic as demonstrated by the fact that the fecal transplantation of nod microbes caused insulitis onset in nor diabetic resistant mice but proved that antibiotic exposure promoted diabetes onset in nod mice.

prolonged antibiotic treatment induces a diabetogenic intestinal microbiome that accelerates diabetes in nod mice.

low incidence of spontaneous type 1 diabetes in nonobese diabetic mice raised on gluten-free diets is associ- ated with changes in the intestinal microbiome.

type 1 diabetes role of intestinal microbiome in humans and mice.

although increasing results from human studies suggest that microbiome could exert a critical role in t1d onset as far limited studies had been conducted on humans in comparison with animal models .conclusionscommensal bacteria represent active players in regulating the complex immunological network and the critical bal- ance involving intestinal microbiome and the host allows the maintenance of mucosal homeostasis.

the presence of microbiota is necessary to induce iec proliferation in case of injury by activating tlrs accordingly iecs of gf mice showed a reduced proliferation rate compared to conventional mice .

in particular t1d incidence was fourfold reduced in nod mice fed with a meat-based protein in absence of gluten respect to mice fed with a diet containing gluten .

gf mice show an altered vasculature a reduced metabolic rate and moreover the intestinal structure and motility are defective .

in agreement with the fundamental role played by the intestinal microbiota in influencing innate immune system and t1d developmentwen and colleagues  investigated the role played by the microbial environment on t1d onset in nod mice.

toll-like receptor signalling in the intestinal epithelium how bacterial recognition shapes intestinal function.

in fact a reduced contact of microbiota with the epithelium was described in presence of a complex microbiome   compared to b. thetaiotamicron monocolonization of gf mice .

recently it has been described that reg3c expressionneeds il-22 whose transcription is induced by microbiome .the study conducted by alam and colleagues reported that a gf environment induced a lower expression of foxp3 by t lymphocytes located in the mucosa of nod mice moreover tregs which have a critical role in the establishment of immunological homeostasis were char- acterized by a defective function .

in an attempt to correct the diabetogenic microbiome vls3 probiotics were administered to nod mice but colonized the intestine poorly and did not delay diabetes.

