More studies are needed to examine the possible role of certain bacterial groups in pre-malignant and cancer lesions as well as its utility as early cancer markers.Esophagus Adenocarcinoma EACEsophageal cancer ranks the eighth most common cancer and the sixth leading cause of cancer death worldwide .

Certain microbes e. g. Helicobacter pylori for gastric cancer Fusobacterium nucleatum for colorectal cancer or the dysbiosis of the microbial community have been shown linked with diseased state even cancer.

The study of the microbiota in biliary tract can- cer is incipient and more studies are needed to clearly understand its role in the development of cancer and its relation with other parasitic infections.Colorectal Cancer CRCThe colo-rectal cancer CRC is a common malignancy distributed all around the world it is the third most com- mon cancer and the second leading cause of cancer- related death worldwide.

We conducted the review of the relation of microbiome and cancer etiology focusing on the gastrointestinal and cervical cancer.

This is an important area of research if we consider that microbiota may be a modifiable factor by the use of pre- and probiotics in order to prevent cancer evolution or even to potentiate cancer treatment.

The connection of human microbiota and cancer especially the gastrointestinal cancer have been suggested by numerous studies.

In contrast the microbiota in the potentially malignant disor- ders was found to overlap between the normal and cancer samples .The studies in oral cancer microbiota are scarce although suggesting the link of oral microbiota and OSCC development.

The authors argued that this finding resembles what happens with H. pylori in gastric cancer and suggested that results support the ''driver-passenger'' model where a microorganism may be responsible for inducing the initial stages of carcinogenesis .The other type of EAC is the esophageal squamous cell cancer ESCC whose carcinogenesis has not yet been fully investigated although it has been associated with Porphyromonas gingivalis infection.

Much remains to be done in order to better understand the role of the microbiota in the development of EAC and other GERD-associated diseases.Gastric Cancer GCGC is the fifth most common cancer and the third leading cause of cancer death in the world .

Functional analysis of gastric microbiota would not only help us understanding the underlying mechanism for the link of non-Hp bacteria and GC they may also help explain the inconsistent find- ings across studies.Biliary Tract Carcinoma CCABiliary tract cancer or cholangiocarcinoma CCA is the main cancer of the biliary tract system .

