2012. il-1 and il-23 were dispensable for gingival thl 7 cells figures 4a 4b s4a and s4b asshown by the fact cytokine-deficient animals specifically ill alb-i ill a and ill b double-deficientmice figure 4a and ill rr- 1 figure s4a as well as il23a--lfigure 4b and ill 2b--lfigure s4bmice exhibited unchanged frequencies of gingival thl 7 cells.open in a separate windowfigure 4differentiation of oral barrier th17 cells ls dependent upon il-6a-c representative facs plots showing ifn-y versus il-17 staining gated on gingivacd45 tcr  c o 4 t cells from age-matched old control or gene-deficient animals and bar graphs show frequency of gingival cd4 il-17 cells in a control n  8 and ill a and ill -b - double gene-deficient ill al-b -  n  7 mice 8 control n  4 and il23a-- n  4 mice and c control n  7 and ilo- 1n  9 mice examined over 2-4 experiments.d and e chimeric mice comprised of wild-type cd45.1 and il6ra-- cd45.2 bone marrow were generated in cd45.1 cd45.2 hosts and gingiva cd4 t cell cytokine production examined at 24 weeksil-6 also promotes thl 7 cell differentiation bettelli et al.

this natural age-driven increase in th i 7 cells provided the ideal setting for us to probe the development of disease-relevant gingival th17 cells.we first determined that these cells required antigen for their development as they were absent in 24- week-old t cell receptor tcr-transgenic animals figure s i a. next we assessed whether enhanced proliferation or survival of thl 7 cells could be contributing to the enlarged gingival thl 7 cell population with age.

to examine whether elevated recruitment of thi 7 cells after damage could also play a role we transferred in vitro differentiated thl 7 and tho cells and examined thl 7 cell recruitment to the gingiva.

these data highlight that diverse tissue-specific mechanisms govern education of thl 7 cell responses and demonstrate that mechanical damage helps define the immune tone of this important oral barrier.keywords mucosal immunology thl 7 cells il-17 oral immunity barrier immunity periodontitis t cellsgraphical abstractgotointroductiongotobarrier-resident immune populations integrate local cues to generate responses that preserve barrier integrity maintain host-commensal interactions and aid in fighting infection cash et al.

therefore elucidating the factors involved in the induction and regulation of thl 7 cells in this environment will shed light on the tissue-specific cues that regulate immunity in the gingiva.here we delineated the mechanisms controlling accumulation of thl 7 cells in the gingiva.

our datademonstrate that gingival thl 7 cells were not dependent on colonization by commensal bacteria as the thl 7 cell population was unchanged in germ-free mice.

staining of gingiva thl 7 cells from 8- and 24-week old mice for the proliferation marker ki67 and the anti-apoptotic marker b cell lymphoma 2 bcl-2 showed that increased proliferation not survival contributed to the enlarged gingival thl 7 cell population that emerged with age figure 1g.we extended these observations to human gingiva by evaluating il-17 cell frequencies in younger 18-25 years of age and older 40-50 years of age healthy volunteers with no evidence of periodontitis eke et al.

no difference in the frequencies of gingival thl 7 cells in sfb and sfb- mice were seen figure 2f demonstrating that gingival thl 7 cell development was independent of sfb.

moreover despite similar thl 7 cell frequencies tac and jax mice had significant differences in their oral bacterial communities figures 2g and s2 further suggesting that the oral microbiome may not be a primary driver of gingival th17 cell development.gingival th17 cells arise independently of commensal colonizationto fully evaluate the role of commensal bacteria in promoting gingival thl 7 cells we examined these cells in age-matched germ-free gf and specific-pathogen-free spf mice.

moreover the frequencies of gingival treg cells were similar in gf and spf mice figure s3e.in sum our data show that in contrast to other barrier sites bacterial colonization was not required to promote the physiological accumulation of th17 cells in the gingiva highlighting that unique factors ensure that thl 7 cells populate this barrier.gingival th17 cells are dependent upon il-6next we sought to determine the cytokine cues required for accumulation of gingival thl 7 cells.

2006. we found that development of gingival thl 7 cells was dependent on il-6 as thl 7 cells were drastically reduced in the gingiva of il6-deficient animals figure 4c.

this occurred specifically in the gingiva and not in the local draining lymph node figure ssb suggesting that mastication locally supports gingival thl 7 cells.figure 5open in a separate windoworal barrier damage drives generation of gingival thl 7 cellsfacs plots show ifn-y versus il-17 staining in gingival cd45 tcr cd4 t cells from 24-week old mice fed control or soft diet from weanin g. data are from three experiments with two to three micegroup.facs plots show ifn-y versus il-17 staining in gingival cd45 tcr  c o 4 t cells from young control or age-matched mice that experienced gingival damage every other day for 11 days.bar graphs show frequency of gingival il-17 or ifn-y cells positive for ki67 left or bcl-2 right from control mice- white bars or mice that experienced repeated gingival damage  black bars.

data from two separate experiments with two to three micegroup.to directly assess whether local barrier damage was a stimulus promoting gingival thl 7 cells we increased the levels of damage at the gingiva of young mice in which few thl 7 cells were seen  figure 1. gingival damage was enhanced by increasing levels of barrier abrasion through rubbing of the gingiva with a sterile cotton applicator once every other day for 11 days.

thl 7 cell increases were not seen in draining lymph nodes further underscoring the compartmentalized nature of this response figure ssd.we next wanted to understand the mechanisms by which gingival damage promoted increases in the number of gingival barrier thl 7 cells.

we found that increased frequencies of gingival thl 7 cells were not seen in response to damage in the absence of cognate antigen demonstrating a requirement for both damage and antigen in promoting an enlarged population of gingival thl 7 cells figure s e. in response to gingival damageilo-1 animals failed to show an increased population of gingival th17 cells figure sf  outlining avital role for il-6 in this damage-induced process.

