Peak intensities for pentanoic acid valine leucine isoleucine 3-phenyllactic acid phenylalanine 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid 2-phenyllactic acid putrescine indole-3-propanoic acid ferulic acid indole-3-lactic acid L-tyro- sine indole-3-propanoic acid ferulic acid indole-3-lactic acid L- tryptophan and deoxycholic acid in fecal samples were gradually increased along with increased sample weight in the TICs.

Method 2 MC 21 locates in the left side of the inner circle and emphasized the majority fatty acid meta- bolismlipids metabolism 3 TCA Cycle intermediates isocitric acid a-ketoglutaric acid and succinic acid polyamines purine and pyrimidine derivatives and 2 metabolites from tyrosine and phenylalanine metabolism phenylacetic acid and mandelic acid.

phenylalanine 7.4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid 8.2-phenyllactic acid 9. putrescine 10. tyrosine 11. indole-3-propanoic acid 12. ferulic acid 13. indole-3-lactic acid 14. tryptophan15.

This area had 23 tyrosine and phenylalanine metabolites 4 metabolites from tryptophan meta- bolism tryptophol indole-3-acetic acid indole-3-propanoic acid and xanthurenic acid and 6 metabolites from fatty acid meta- bolismlipids metabolism.

The debris was consid- ered as pre-extracted pooled feces samples and used for method evaluation.Standard mixtures were prepared by mixing the stock solutions in water or methanol resulting in a final concentration of 500 mM for each amino acid 250 mM for each phenyl derivative organic acid and fatty acids and 125 mM for each choline metabolite bile acid indole sugar vitamin and amine.

The correlation coefficients r2 for 3-phenyllactic acid 4- hydroxyphenylacetic acid and deoxycholic acid in fecal samplesranged from 10 mg to 40 mg approached 0.99.

The optimal condition influencing the identified metabolite extraction is experiment 3 31 methanolchloroform vv which is correlated to most of the resolved peaks.acids SCFA including pentanoic acid hexanoic acid and 3- methylvaleric acid.

IAA indole-3- propanoic acid IPA and 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid 5-HIAA were elevated and xanthurenic acid was decreased in rhubarb treated samples in a dose dependent manner.

The mass spectrometry data was acquired at full scan mode mz 30- 600 with an acquisition rate of 10 spectra per second and a solvent delay of 7 min.Method validation62 reference standards representing choline metabolism fatty acid metabolism tryptophan metabolism tyrosine and phenylala- nine metabolism lysine metabolism histidine metabolism argi- nine and proline metabolism branched-chain amino acid metabolism carbohydrate metabolism TCA cycle were used to evaluate with optimized procedure.

Method 1 located in the left side of the bi-plot and MC 11 emphasized two TCA metabolites malic acid and fumaric acid and short chain fattyFig.

