this method is similar to open-reference clustering except that in our approach all sequences are subjected to de novo clustering following classification whereas in open-reference clustering only those sequences that cannot be classified are subjected to de novo clustering.

we evaluated the quality of the sequence clustering the reproducibility of the clustering the speed of clustering and the amount of memory required to complete the clustering.

here we described a new clustering method that seeks to optimize clustering based on an objective criterion that measures clustering quality in real time.

in the current study we developed and benchmarked a new de novo clustering algorithm that uses real-time calculation of the mcc to direct the progress of the clustering.

the justification for allowing incomplete conver- gence was based on the observation that numerous iterations are performed that extend the time required to complete the clustering with minimal improvement in clustering fig.

seven heuristic methods were also used including abundance-based greedy clustering agc and distance- based greedy clustering dgc as implemented in usearch v.6.1  and vsearch v.2.3.3  otuclust v.0.1  and sumaclust v.1.0.20 and swarm v.2.1.9 .

furthermore on average opticlust was 94.6 times faster than the average neighbor algorithm and just as fast as distance-based greedy clustering with vsearch.

a third category of algorithm is open- reference clustering which is a hybrid approach  .

here sequences are assigned to otus using closed-reference clustering and sequences that are not within a thresh- old of a reference sequence are then clustered using a de novo approach.

this category blends the strengths and weaknesses of the other method and adds the complication that closed-reference and de novo clustering use different otu definitions.

as an alternative we developed an approach to objectively benchmark the clustering quality of otu assignments   .

the distance-based greedy clustering as implemented in vsearch has also performed well.

0.03 a list of all sequence names in the data set and the metric that should be used to assess clustering quality.

the location that results in the best clustering quality indicates whether the sequence should remain in its current otu or be moved to a different or new otu.

when we seeded the opticlust algorithm with each sequence in a separate otu and ran the algorithm until complete convergence the mcc values averaged 15.2 and 16.5 higher than the otus using average neighbor and distance-based greedy clustering dgc with vsearch respectively  table s1.

