aim 2 to demonstrate that a collagenolytic strain of s. marces- cens is capable of causing anastomotic leakage in mice when introduced via enema after a low colon anastomosis.annals of surgery  volume xx number xx month 2017  1aim 3 to demonstrate that mice orally ingesting ppi-6 in their drinking water are protected against anastomotic leakage due to a collagenolytic strain of s. marcescens introduced via enema after a low colon anastomosis.aim 4 to demonstrate that other collagenolytic strains of gram- negative bacteria that is p. aeruginosa can also cause anasto- motic leak in this model and is prevented by ppi-6 when administered in the drinking water.aim 5 to demonstrate that the mechanism by which oral ppi-6 prevents anastomotic leak due to s. marcescens and p. aeruginosa in mice after low colon anastomotic surgery is by its ability to concentrate within anastomotic tissues and prevent bacterial collagenase production in vivo.bacterial strainsan antibiotic-resistant s. marcescens strain was originally isolated from the stool of a critically ill patient.this strain was characterized as collagenolytic and was termed s2-s. marcescens to denote it from other isolated strains of s. marcescens i.e.

samples were stored at -808c.tissue bacterial culturegiven that the s2-s. marcescens strain is resistant to imipe- nem we prepared selective plates to isolate s2-s. marcescens and distinguish it from indigenous strains of s. marcescens by supple- menting macconkey agar with imipenem 1 mcgml.

s2-s. marcescens is delivered by enema at pod1 pod2 and pod3 twice a day 100 ml of s. marcescens solution in 10 glycerol od600 nm 14 1.0.tissues from mice not exposed to s2-s. marcescens.

p  0.05 was considered statistically significant.resultss2-s. marcescens expresses a high degree of collagenolytic activityresults indicate that s2-s. marcescens expresses a high degree of collagenase activity after 10 hours of growth in tsb fig.

a dynamics of gelatin-degrading activity in s. marcescens grown in tsb n 6. b ppi-6 suppresses the collagenolytic activity of s. marcescens blue color curve in a concentration-dependent manner n 6group p  0.01 between groups of ppi-6 0 and ppi-60.05 mm without affecting its growth black color curve.

as shown by others both swarming and swimming motility can be induced by phosphate limita- tion.ppi-6 was added to tsb and s2-s. marcescens was grown overnight and then plates were prepared with low agar concentrations to analyze the motility of s. marcescens at varying concentrations of ppi-6.

2f bottom panel in a concentration-dependent manner.s2-s. marcescens complicates anastomotic healing in mice treated with antibioticswe next developed a novel mouse model of anastomotic leak induced by s. marcescens.

f total collagenase activity at anastomotic tissues is decreased by oral ppi-6 n 5 p  0.01 student t test.procedure for anastomotic tissue inoculation was as follows 100 ml of bacterial suspension in 10 glycerol od600 nm 1.0 2 109 cfusml of s1-s. marcescens noncollagenolytic strain n 10 or s2-s. marcescens collagenolytic strain n 4 were introduced at site of the anastomosis after its surgical completion via enema with a feeding needle and syringe.

the remaining mice appeared healthy and were sacrificed on pod10.ppi-6 attenuates s. marcescens colonization and collagenase activity at anastomotic tissues and prevents healing complicationsthe ppi-6 was added to the drinking water at a final concen- tration of 16 mm based on in vitro experiments indicatingsuppression of biofilm formation and motility of s2-s. marcescens fig.

because bacteria harbor sensory systems to detect the extracellular concentration of phosphate which controls their virulence we tested whether local phosphate administration in the form of polyphosphate could attenuate pathogen virulence and prevent leak without affecting bacterial growth.methods groups of mice underwent a colorectal anastomosis which was then exposed to collagenolytic strains of either serratia marcescens or pseudomonas aeruginosa via enema.

all mice were sacrificed on postoperative day 10 and anastomoses assessed for leakage the presence of collagenolytic bacteria and anastomotic ppi-6 concentration.results ppi-6 markedly attenuated collagenase and biofilm production and also swimming and swarming motility in both s. marcescens and p. aeru- ginosa while supporting their normal growth.

mice drinking ppi-6 demon- strated increased levels of ppi-6 and decreased colonization of s. marcescens and p. aeruginosa and collagenase activity at anastomotic tissues.

ppi-6 prevented anastomotic abscess formation and leak in mice after anastomotic exposure to s. marcescens and p. aeruginosa.conclusions polyphosphate administration may be an alternative approach to prevent anastomotic leak induced by collagenolytic bacteria with the advantage of preserving the intestinal microbiome and its colonization resistance.keywords anastomotic healing score mouse model of colonic anastomosis polyphosphate pseudomonas aeruginosa serratia marcescensann surg 2017xxxxx-xxxespite decades of descriptive research the etiology and patho- genesis of anastomotic leak remains unknown.

previous work from our laboratory has demonstrated that bacteria harbor exquisitely sensitive sensory sys- tems to detect the extracellular concentration of phosphate which plays a major role in virulence expression.because we have shown that surgical injury depletes local intestinal phosphate concen- trationsmaintaining local phosphate levels at anastomotic tissues may suppress the release of undesired bacterial virulence products.in the present report we identify a pathogen capable of pro- ducing a high degree of collagenase serratia marcescens whose rolefrom the university of chicago department of surgery chicago il and radboud university medical center department of surgery nijmegen the netherlands.skh and rk are considered as equally contributing co-authors.

marcescens and p. aeruginosa in vitro.

