because during log-phase growth c. perfringens secretes etx a toxin that specifically targets the bbb and the myelin sheath we chose to investigate the effect of these oral ms therapies on c. perfringens growth in vitro.methodsdrugs and compoundsall drugs and compounds used in this study were purchased from sigma aldrich.bacterial strains and growth conditionsc.

therefore we tested if oral dmds affected the growth of c. perfringens toxinotypes a-e. we compared the growth inhibitory effects of fingolimod dmf and teriflunomide to that of oral symptom management drugs smds baclofen bupropion and gabapentin drugs not thought to alter the disease course of ms. we exposed c. perfringens cultures to 500 ugml of each compound allowed for overnight anaerobic growth and determined the optical density od600 the following day.

aureus and b. anthracis growth and to suppress s. aureus43therefore depleting c. perfringens of thiols may contribute tomichael acceptor mediated growth inhibition.although teriflunomide is an a b unsaturated carbonyl we have shown that glutathione has no effect on its ability to inhibit c. perfringens growth.

2016. local release of dmf may increase its concentration in the small intestine where c. perfringens resides.second our experimental growth conditions are likely to be more favorable to c. perfringens growth than the intestinal milieu.

57 5432-5437. doi schwobel j. a. wondrousch d. koleva y. k. madden j. c. cronin m. t. and schuurmann g. 2010. prediction of michael-type acceptor reactivity strader c. r. pearce c. j. and oberlies n. h. 2011. fingolimod fty720 a recently approved multiple sclerosis drug based on a fungal secondary metabolite.

we screened dmf and its metabolites monomethyl fumarate mmf and fumarate and found that each compound inhibited the growth of type strain c. perfringens atcc 13124. however their saturated succinate counterparts dimethyl succinate dms monomethyl succinate mms and succinate molecules devoid of michael acceptor activity due to reduction of the a b carbon double bond failed to inhibit c. perfringens figure 3a.

mic-values were plotted for each compound revealing gambogic acid as the most potent with an mic95 of 1 ugml when compared to parthenolide and curcumin which each inhibit c. perfringens at 64 ugml.striking that nucleophilic thiols not only play an important role in mammalian cell homeostasis but are also necessary substrates for c. perfringens growth.

statistical analysis was performed using the two-tailed student t-test graphpad software san diego ca usa.resultswith renewed interest in gut bacteria and their potential involvement in the pathogenesis of ms bhargava and mowry 2014 we wished to determine if oral disease-modifying drugs dmds have the ability to modulate growth of c. perfringens since type b and d strains secrete etx during log-phase growth.

error bars represent standard deviations and asterisks indicate that the inhibition of bacterial growth observed in the presence of unsaturated fumarates is statistically significant when compared to the bacterial growth observed in the presence of corresponding saturated succinates student's t-test p  0.0001. b serial dilutions of inhibitory fumarate compounds were performed and c. perfringens atcc 13124 was cultured at each dilution.od600-values for each dilution were divided by that of the corresponding dmso vehicle control dilution.

error bars represent standard deviations and asterisks indicate that gsh aided growth recovery is statistically significant when compared to the lack of growth recovery in the absence of gsh student's t-test p  0.001. b c. perfringens atcc 13124 was cultured in the presence of dmf vitamin c vitamin e and gsh each at concentration of250 ugml.

fingolimod inhibited c. perfringens growth in a bactericidal fashion similar to what was observed with the known bactericidal antibiotic mixture penstrep aspost-treatment dilution and repeat culture failed to restore bacterial growth.conversely dmf and teriflunomide were shown to be bacteriostatic aspost-treatment dilution and culture successfully restored bacterial growth.

here we show that fingolimod teriflunomide and dmf indeed inhibit c. perfringens growth.

moreover inhibition of c. perfringens growth and resulting blockade of epsilon toxin production may contribute to the clinical efficacy of these disease-modifying drugs.keywords multiple sclerosis oral therapies anti-bacterial agents clostridium perfringens microbiomeintroductionmultiple sclerosis ms is the most common non-traumatic neurological disease of young adults in western europe and north america conway and cohen 2010. although traditionally considered an autoimmune disease that specifically targets central nervous system myelin frohman et al.

perfringens types b and d the producers of etx are commonly found in the intestines of ruminant animals such as sheep goats and cattle but not humans popoff 2011. etx toxin is a potent neurotoxin secreted as a 33 kda inactive precursor during the logarithmic growth phase of c. perfringens in the mammalian intestine.

after inoculation the gaspak sachet was replacedfor the overnight culture.experimental proceduresthe compounds used for the initial growth inhibition screen were diluted to a final concentration of 500 ugml in mueller hinton broth bd and media was inoculated with 5 x 106 colony- forming units cfus of different c. perfringens strains.

