the 6-year change in bmi for those subjects consuming the highest intake of complex carbohydrates was 0.9 - 0.4 kgm2 over the 6-year period but this gain in bmi was not related to lactobacillus level.for those with medium intakes of complex carbohydrates change in bmi was also similar among those with counts of oral lactobacillus  105 on average 1.1 - 0.3 kgm2 during the course of 6 years whereas bmi remained stable 0.2 - 0.2 kgm2 for those with high counts 106. the adjusted analysis also revealed a significant interaction p  0.03 between counts of oral lactobacillus colonies and total energy intake.we performed specific sensitivity analyses to examine confounding from sugar intake and smoking included as both a continuous and a categorical variable but all results were essentially similar before and after inclusion of these variables data not shown.also none of the other covariates including the indicator variable whether participants had developed gallstones or additional variables on active caries dental hygiene or antibi- otics use in the past 5 years were found to influence the association between lactobacillus and 6-year weight gain data not shown and none of these variables were consequently included in the final model except for bmi at baseline.discussionthe present study proposes oral lactobacillus counts as a novel biomarker for weight gain susceptibility in people with low and medium intake of complex carbohydrates.

the finding that oral lactobacillus counts were unrelated to weight devel- opment in subjects with high intake of complex carbohydrates supports the previously reported observation of l. casei dominating the oral cavity 18. l. casei is beneficial for immune regulation and weight maintenance but fuels on simple carbohydrates 24 and may therefore not impact weight development in subjects with high intake of complex carbo- hydrates.some study limitations also need to be addressed.

in support of our findings most species of lactobacillus in the oral cavity belong to the l. casei group 18.the inverse association between oral lactobacillus and weight change remained similar before and after adjusting for numerous covariates including sugar intake alcohol intake and smoking which in other studies have been found to influence both oral and intestinal lactobacillus count as well as risk of obesity 19 20 21. a final set of sensitivity analyses included adjustment for use of antibiotics in previous 5 years dental hygiene and active caries.

we found that high oral lactobacillus count predicted weight loss if the intake of complex carbo- hydrates was low while at medium intake of complex carbohydrates high oral lactobacillus count 106 predicted weight maintenance.

4 compared the genomes of lactobacillus strains associated with weight gain and weight protection and found that the lactobacillus species associated with weight protection to a greater extent were involved in carbohydrate transport and metabolism than those lactobacillus species associated with weight gain.sampling directly from the small intestine is challenging and collection of fecal samples is obtained with some difficulty and low compliance of patients thus warranting novel sampling strategies.

the largest proportion 38.8 n  125 of the subjects had an oral lactobacillus count of 103 colonies while 67 20.8 subjects had a count of 106 oral lactobacillus colonies.cross-sectional associations between bmi at baseline and counts of lactobacillus colonies were neither significant before p  0.54 nor after adjusting for relevant covariates such as sex age socioeconomic position alcohol smoking complex carbohydrate intake sugar intake and energy intake p  0.28 data not shown.an overall inverse association was found between counts of oral lactobacillus and subse- quent 6-year change in bmi p  0.03 before adjusting for covariates 103 b  0 104 b  0.13 95 ci -0.40 0.65  105 b  -0.09 95 ci -0.64 0.44  106 b  -0.70 95 ci -1.23 -0.18data not shown.

most were unaware that they had gallstones as most stones were without symptoms 7. to examine if there was an association between dietary carbohydrates and oral bacteria subjects agreed to give saliva and have their oral lactobacillus cultivated.the three health examinations included measurements of height and weight and questionnaires on life- style including socioeconomic positioning smoking and alcohol consumption.the project was approved by the ethics committee for copenhagen county and is in accordance with the helsinki declaration of 1975 as revised in 1983.anthropometric measurementsall anthropometric measurements were made in accordance with the who standards.

there was no association between oral lactoba- cillus and 6-year changes in bmi in subjects with high intakes of complex carbohydrates.the mechanism behind our observations remains elusive but alterations in the gut microbiota are a possible confounding cause giving the proposed interrelationship between the oral and gut microbiome 11. gut microbes increase energy extracting potential of otherwise indigestible nutrients 12 and have been shown to affect host metabolism and weight change in both mice 13 and humans 14. ridaura et al.

high oral lactobacillus count predicted weight loss for those with a low intake of complex carbohydrates while a medium intake of complex car- bohydrates predicted diminished weight gain.

therefore it is of great interest to examine if oral microbiota easily collected from saliva with great compliance of patients may be associated with weight change and thus may potentially be used as a marker to identify who is at risk of later weight gain and development of obesity.

obes facts 201710473-482doi 10.1159000478095received september 28 2016accepted june 7 2017published online october 12 2017c 2017 the authorspublished by s. karger gmbh freiburg original articlethis article is licensed under the creative commons attribution-noncommercial-noderivatives 4.0 interna- tional license cc by-nc-nd wusage and distribu- tion for commercial purposes as well as any distribution of modified material requires written permission.oral lactobacillus counts predict weight gain susceptibility a 6-year follow-up studyjohanne aviaja rosinga karen christina walkera benjamin a.h. jensenbberit l. heitmanna c d ea department of public health section for general practice faculty of health and medical sciences university of copenhagen copenhagen denmark b department of biology laboratory for genomics and molecular biomedicine faculty of science university of copenhagen copenhagen denmark c research unit for dietary studies the parker institute bispebjerg and frederiksberg hospital the capital region and university of copenhagen frederiksberg denmark d the boden institute of obesity nutrition exercise  eating disorders sydney medical school the university of sydney sydney australia e national institute of public health university of southern denmark copenhagen denmarkkeywordsobesity  human gut  lactobacillus  weight change  prospective observational studyabstractbackground recent studies have shown an association between weight change and the makeup of the intestinal microbiota in humans.

the adjusted analyses however revealed significant interactions between counts of oral lactobacillus colonies and complex carbohydrate intake p for interaction  0.04.the associations between the counts of oral lactobacillus and the subsequent 6-year change in bmi by levels of carbohydrate intake are shown in figure 1. analyses were adjusted for bmi at baseline.the figure shows that the largest subsequent 6-year increase in bmi was found for those with the lowest baseline levels of lactobacillus 103 and 104 and the lowest intake of complex carbohydrate while a 6-year loss in bmi was found for those with the highest level of lactobacillus 106 and the lowest intake of complex carbohydrates.

aim we examined the association between the level of oral lactobacillus and the subsequent 6-year weight change in a healthy population of 322 danish adults aged 35-65 years at base- line.

conclusion a high level of oral lactobacillus seems related to weight loss among those with medium and low intakes of complex carbohydrates.

absence or a low level of oral lactobacillus may potentially be a novel marker to identify those at increased risk of weight gain.c 2017 the authorspublished by s. karger gmbh freiburgjohanne aviaja rosing and karen christina walker shared first authorship.prof.

