take special care not to traumatize the junctional epithelium figure 3.remove paper points after 20 s.collect paper points directly into prepared tubes place the paper point tip directly in a sterile and dna-free vial and cut it at the third mark to a standardized length of 4 mm figure 4.if indicated by the study protocols insert two paper points parallel and simultaneously at the same site figure 5a.alternatively collect paper points from several sites if the study protocol requires pooled samples figure 5b.remove the dry field apparatus for mucosal and saliva sampling.mucosal paper point samplingapply paper points to the vestibular fold of the upper cheek figure 6.close the cheek and massage it briefly.open the cheek and remove the paper points after 20 s.cut paper points at the third mark and place them in a sterile tube as indicated for subgingival sampling.saliva samplinglet the child spit unstimulated saliva into a sterilized collection vessel figure 7.transfer and storagecollect paper points as single pooled or parallel samples depending on the study design figure 8.apply a color-coded storage system to facilitate further sample management figure 9.finally store the samples at -80 degc pending microbiome analysis.

two paper points are inserted simultaneously into the subgingival sulcus of one tooth a or several paper points into the subgingival sulci of several teeth b. please click here to view a larger version of this figure.figure 6 mucosal sampling.

other reports have referred to the use of metal curettes3536 or paper points 373839 but did not describe the processes that take place prior to sampling such as plaque control tooth cleaning tooth isolation and drying as well as the processes that result from inadequate specifications on the sampling technique and time lines.in two previous articles we show that the use of paper points is a reproducible method for subgingival biofilm sampling in children2240.

video articleoral biofilm sampling for microbiome analysis in healthy childrenelisabeth santigli1 martin koller2 barbara klug11division of oral surgery and orthodontics department of dental medicine and oral health medical university of graz2division of preventive and operative dentistry periodontology prosthodontics and restorative dentistry department of dental medicine and oral health medical university of grazcorrespondence to barbara klug at url doi keywords medicine issue 130 subgingival mucosal paper point sampling oral biofilm saliva microbiota microbiome child orthodontics date published 12312017citation santigli e. koller m. klug b. oral biofilm sampling for microbiome analysis in healthy children.

apply water only but no toothpaste as this would alter the oral biofilm.mount the dry field apparatus again including the tongue guard to keep the mouth open and dry.clean and dry the index teeth with sterile cotton swabs to avoid absorption of supragingival fluid during paper point sampling.biofilm samplingpaper point sampling of the subgingival sulcusgrasp the paper points with sterile dental tweezers.insert paper points tangentially up to a defined length of 4 mm.

however salivary biofilm does not reflect subgingival biofilm composition.

yet no research group is known to have focused on the application of standardized sampling devices for different age groups especially for children19.in this video oral biofilm sampling of three oral habitats in healthy children is presented.modifications and troubleshootingthe aim of the manuscript focuses on the clinical protocol for subgingival biofilm sampling of healthy children.

written consent for this video publication was obtained from the child and her parent.instruments and materialscut calibrated iso 01502 and sterile paper points usually used in endodontic therapy at the first ring mark in order to standardize their length figure 1.apply uv light irradiation at 260 nm for 30 min in order to avoid dna and rna contamination of the paper points figure 2.autoclave the tubes for storage at 120 degc and 1.2 bar for 20 min and uv-irradiate them as well or employ ready-to-use gamma irradiated tubes.preparation of subjectsnote written informed consent was obtained from the child and her parent prior to enrollment.apply cocoa butter to the lips.mount the cheek and tongue retractor for full access to both dental arches.stain the dental plaque with plaque disclosure.remove the dry field apparatus.rinse the mouth with water until the water is colorless.brush teeth thoroughly with an electric tooth brush at 45 deg angulation.

we thus focus on the use of paper points for subgingival sampling.

as the method of choice paper points are inserted atraumatically into the sound subgingival sulcus.

table 1 shows the shift in biofilm composition during an in vitro study comparing two time points t1 and t3.

sterile calibrated paper points are inserted tangentially into the subgingival sulcus until the 4 mm ring mark for 20 s.figure 4 cutting paper point into tube.

showing subgingival microbiome shifts in an orthodontic case control study n  16 each group 3 points in time cases pink to red controls light to dark blue.

thus the use of other sampling methods is crucial for creating the whole picture and will evoke new discussions in dental research.several articles compare the use of curettes and paper points for subgingival sampling of periodontally diseased subjects83334.

thus after sampling the paper points should be inserted directly in rna stabilization solution.limitations of the techniqueregardless of modifications the clinical sampling method we describe is limited to the sound subgingival sulcus.

