thus monitoring changes in both the soil microbial community structure and activity of the soil microbial community after appli- cation of organic fertilizers is essential for understanding not only the soil nutrient availability especially nitro- gen but also for understanding how the organic amendment affects community stability.

moreover the microbial biomass and activity contributed 9.38 of the total data variability with values ranging between 3.15 and 19.87. however microbial biomass and activity only weakly influenced the total variability when compared to changes in both bacteria and fungi community structures.figure 1. multiple factor analysis of the bacterial and fungal communities hellinger-transformed data together with the microbial biomass and microbial activity according to the a organic amendment control manure lucerne corn and straw and b time 32 69 and 132 days with c hierarchy of multiple factor analysis considering the clusters c1 c2 c3 c4 c5 c6 of corresponding variables and the amount of inertia gained in the clustering cut-off.figure 2. percentage of inertia for each of the first 10 dimensions from the multiple factor analysis of the bacterial and fungal communities hellinger-transformed data together with microbial biomass and activity according to the group of variables a t treatments - n source x time b bacterial community f classified fungal community unf unclassified fungal community ac variables of microbial biomass and active community and b the percentage of total inertia related to each dimension.the hmfa based on bacterial and fungal community structure dna-based resulted in four clusters supplementary fig.

however to date no studies have investigated such microbial shifts caused by organic amendments.we hypothesize that organic amendments induce qualitative changes to the microbial soil community and that this shift in community is stronger with respect to the active community component than for the entire microbial seedbank.

c1 cluster 1 c2 cluster 2 c3 cluster 3.figure 4. percentage of inertia for each of the first 10 dimensions from the multiple factor analysis of the bacterial and fungal community hellinger-transformed data together with the microbial biomass and activity and c and n mineralization rate according to the group of variables a t treatments - n source x time b bacteria community f classified fungal community unf unclassified fungi community ac variables of active community and microbial biomass min carbon and nitrogen mineralization rate and b the percentage of total inertia related to each dimension.glomus and two unknown fungi respectively from the family sporodiobolales and the class glomeromycetes and smaller populations of an unclassified fungus from the class pezizomycotina.

accordingly in order to understand the influences of organic amendments on the soil micro- bial community researches need to take into account how changes in the active microbial community further influence the overall composition of the microbial community itself in terms of resilience and resistance.

however the amount of organic amendment applied to the soil microbial community showed resilience and changes in the microbial community over time remained a minor effect.moreover as shown by the mfa results changes in the fungal community both classified and unclassified explained part of the total data variability.

as a consequence some soil microbial populations might face resource competition during decomposition that can change the community structure according to changing available resources.recent studies have contributed to our understanding of organic decomposition by describing soil organic matter formation and chemical composition of stable c and n formsand have highlighted the roles of both labile and recalcitrant plant compounds.

finally we discuss how changes in microbial community activity can interfere with community stability of the soil microbial seedbank.resultsorganic amendment effect on microbial community structure and activity.

organic amendments can shift the composition of the active microbial community and consequently that of the whole soil microbial community but we still lack detailed information about how this process occurs.

community shifts may also follow the response of microbial biomass and activity due to organic amendments and mineral fertilizers thus altering the total soil community and ultimately affecting nutrient uptake.

therefore our choice of sampling periods was intended to avoid compromising the analysis of organic amendment quality in the soil microbial community.however to determine when the effect of exogenous community ceases and the effect of nutrient addition begins remains an open question for future investigations that can make use of more intensive monitoring.not all microorganisms in soil are active many exist in a dormant state and prolong resumption of activ- ity until appropriate environmental conditions are present.

further investigation will be required to fully support this hypothesis and determine the frequency of organic amendments required to convert the changes in soil microbial activity in a strong rearrangement of soil microbial seedbank.positive or negative shifts in microbial abundances within treatment clusters suggests specific ecologic and metabolic interactions between bacterial and fungal soil communities.

our results suggest that organic amendments shape the soil microbial community structure through a feedback mechanism by which microbial activity responds to changing organic inputs and rearranges composition of the microbial seedbank.

we hypothesize that the microbial seedbank composition responds to changing organic inputs according to the resistance and resilience of individual species while changes in microbial activity may result in increases or decreases in availability of various soil nutrients that affect plant nutrient uptake.the application of organic amendments as an alternative or complement to mineral fertilization is intended to increase soil fertility and especially nitrogen level which is a yield-limiting factor.

plos one 10 e0124096 doi 10.1371journal.pone.0124096 2015.cotrufo m. f. wallenstein m. d. boot c. m. denef k.  paul e. the microbial efficiency-matrix stabilization mems framework integrates plant litter decomposition with soil organic matter stabilization do labile plant inputs form stable soil organic matter glob.

