Thus recent approaches in agriculture do not only rely on a combined use of organic and mineral fertilisers   but also include the application of additional single organic amendments every 3- 5 years with the aim to restore soil quality .

Both mineral N and organic amendments were significant factors of influence in the permutation test mineral F153  4.64 p  0.001 organic F253  4.11 p  0.001.

In International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media San Jose CA USAKorschens M Albert E Armbruster M Barkusky D Baumecker M Behle-Schalk L Bischoff R Cergan Z et al 2013 Effect of mineral and organic fertilization on crop yield nitrogen uptake carbon and nitrogen balances as well as soil organic carbon content and dynamics results from 20 European long-term field experi- ments of the twenty-first century.

Microbial Ecology httpsdoi.org10.1007s00248-017-1110-zOrganic Amendments in a Long-term Field Trial--Consequencesfor the Bulk Soil Bacterial Community as Revealed by Network AnalysisChristoph A. O. Schmid1  Peter Schroder1  Martin Armbruster2  Michael Schloter1Received 1 June 2017  Accepted 13 November 2017 Springer ScienceBusiness Media LLC part of Springer Nature 2017AbstractThis study intended to elucidate the long-term effects of organic soil amendments on bacterial co-occurrence in bulk soil with and without addition of mineral fertiliser.

Most importantly both organic amendments increased network complexity irrespective of mineral fertilisation regime.

In contrast the application of organic soil amendments resulted in positive effects and increased bacterial diversity as well as plant health -.

Despite that manure application on arable land might be critical due to an enrichment of antibiotic resistance genes -.In the long term it has been considered that organic amend- ments also influence soil quality positively .

Thus data on the influence of additional single organic amendment applications on the soil microbial community which is one of the major drivers for soil quality is rare.Most amendments introduce complex often polymeric or- ganic substances into the soil that are degraded and metabolised by specialised microorganisms.

It is therefore conceivable that when assessing the fertility of amended soils bacterial diversity is only one side of the coin while an investigation on how organisms interact is the second.In this study we present results obtained from a long-term experimental field study in Speyer Germany where addition- al single organic amendment applications were implemented into different mineral fertiliser regimes.

Besides a- and ss- diversity we assessed novel co-occurrence networks and we investigated the stimulation of such co-occurrence patterns by complex organic materials.

