and re- lated gastric pathologies also continued in 2016. hexane extracts of callophylum brasiliense an evergreen tree native to latin america's rain forests were shown to attenuate h. felis-induced gastric epi- thelial pathology50 and crude n-acetylneuraminic acid obtained from glycomacropeptide g-nana of whey was shown to possess anti-helicobacter activity reducing h. felis colonization levels in mice.51 administration of saccharomyces boulardii to h. suis-infected mice resulted in increased h. suis-specific iga levels in gastric juice lower bacterial colonization levels and reduced formation of gas- tric lymphoid follicles which are typically induced by chronic h. suis infection.52some nhph in particular helicobacter apodemus helicobacter cholecystus and h. rodentium were significantly more abundant during pregnancy of sprague dawley rats.

intravenous treat- ment with imipenemcilastatin and minocycline for 2 weeks pursued by oral minocycline for 2 months eliminated symptoms although a stool sample was still positive for h. cinaedi.24 a 54-year-old im- munocompetent japanese man who was found to have bacteremia complicated with bilateral lower extremity cellulitis due to h. cinaedi had two recurring episodes post-treatment therefore treatment was prolonged 12 weeks until his symptoms subsided.25 the h. cinaedi cinaedi atherosclerosis inflammatory protein caip antigen partic- ipates in atherosclerotic inflammation by promoting macrophage differentiation into foam cells and drives a pro-inflammatory th1 phenotype an immunopathological response associated with athero- sclerosis.26 schmitz et al.27 showed that in vitro growth of h. cinaedi could be enhanced by coculture with human epithelial cells caco-2 ls-174t ags and hela and l-lactate supplementation under h2- free aerobic conditions.diagnosis of helicobacter suis infection is often problematic mainly due to the extremely difficult isolation of this bacterium.

depletion of the h. hepaticus-induced cytokine il-22 in- hibited these effects.453  helicobacter felis infection of mice as a model for human h. pylori infection in the past experimental infection of mice with h. felis was often used as a surrogate model for human helicobacter pylori infection and this was also the case in 2016. in line with what bosschem et al.

similar to pig-associated h. suis strains33 these primate- associated h. suis strains were shown to induce severe gastric inflam- mation in mice and mongolian gerbils which was accompanied by a marked th17 response and increased cxcl-13 levels which may play a role in the development of typical lymphoid lesions associated with h. suis infection.34 these same authors characterized for the first time the inflammation in the stomach of h. suis-infected pigs.35 similar to the mouse model increased il-17 expression levels were observed in infected animals.

compared 45 children and 41 adults with chronic symp- toms and h. pylori infection in santiago chile and showed that the overall gastric microbiota composition of h. pylori-positive children differed significantly from that of h. pylori-negative children and that of adults regardless of h. pylori status.68 therefore acquisition ofh.

also in this study no clear correlation was found between infection and gastritis although gastric carci- noma was observed in a cat infected with h. heilmannii s.s.9 although it should be noted that the authors did not test for all carnivore helicobacter species hong et al.10 described a case of h. felis infec- tion in a 3 month-old kitten from a research facility suffering from anorexia and occasional vomiting.

the man was ultimately treated by selective digestive decontamination with kanamycin.14 saito et al.15 reported three new cases of h. fennelliae bacteremia with gastrointestinal symptoms nausea vomiting and diarrhea and a retrospective study of 24 cases of h. fennelliae bacteremia reported in the literature showed that most of the patients had a background of immunosuppression including solid tumors hemato- logical malignancies and autoimmune diseases.

using an h. felis and h. pylori mouse model moyat et al.59 showed that il-22 has a critical role in vaccine-induced protection.

one of these sequences was identical to that of sheep and suggested the zoonotic transmission of this pathogen between sheep and humans.12 helicobacter trogontum and h. bilis were isolated from the livers of aborted sheep fetuses in 20 of cases.13many cases of nhph infection in humans were reported this year mainly h. fennelliae and h. cinaedi in immunocompromised patients.

thus h. pylori might persist in the stomach during early life by promoting immunological toler- ance and downregulating gastric inflammation which is consistent with reduced gastric disease severity in h. pylori-positive children compared to h. pylori-positive adults.

a study characterized the gastric microbiome of 51 pediatric patients with dyspeptic symp- toms 18 h. pylori positive and 33 negative from madrid spain.62 brawner et al.

during the experiment contributed to the variability of results be- tween laboratories.74 ffar2 a receptor for short-chain fatty acids me- tabolites of dietary fiber fermentation by gut microbiota is essentialfor the elimination of h. hepaticus from gut microbiota and for the sup- pression of colonic inflammation and carcinogenesis.75probiotics are living microorganisms which have health benefits on the host when administered in adequate amounts.76 nakae et al.

interestingly matsui et al.28 for the first time determined the whole-genome sequence from a mouse-passaged h. suis strain obtained from a japanese patient with nodular gastritis.

blaecher et al.30 developed a highly sensitive and specific probe-based rt-pcr assay and an opti- mized protocol to isolate low numbers of h. suis from infected mice.

showed for h. suis34 chonwerawong et al.46 found that the host background has a profound impact on the susceptibility to helicobacter-induced pathologies.

