These discrepancies may be due to the enrichment of specific proteins by the OM and SE extraction protocols combined with a too low concentration for detection in the WC control sample.For the remainder of the analysis we only considered proteins as potential OM if they were detected in both the OM and the WC control samples while we considered proteins as potential SE if they were present in all three samples leading to 958 proteins WC  OM  262 WC  OM  SE  696.

With this strategy we managed to robustly predict the localization of 85 15591844 of the proteins 63 1171 cytoplasmic 17 309 IM 2 44periplasmic 1 23 OM 0.5 12 secreted whereas 15 285 proteins remained with undefined localization Figure 1A and Table S1.The 23 proteins robustly predicted to be in the OM include many known OM components such as TonB-dependent receptors OmpM components of the BAMTAM machinery TolC and OmpA Table S1.

The remaining 106 which included all of the previously missed trimeric autotransporters were combined with the 23 predicted OM proteins to provide a final dataset of 129 potential outer membrane proteins Table S2.Subcellular FractionationTo validate our in silico prediction and to firmly identify OM proteins we carried out a proteomic analysis of the OM ofV.

The WC control extract contained 1342 proteins while the OM fraction contained 990 proteins and the SE fraction contained 849 proteins.

Positive periplasmic prediction and secreted proteins were determined by a two out of three or greater concurrent results of PSORT CELLO and SOSUI.Search for Conserved Domains and HomologsTo identify homologs of experimentally identified proteins we ran a BLAST 2.2.30 Camacho et al.

This could prevent proper prediction of many proteins and fail to find novel OM proteins.

Indeed they failed to correctly identify the experimentally characterized trimeric autotransporters which were predicted as secreted or had undefined localization Table S1.As such we more thoroughly investigated the 297 proteins with undefined prediction or predicted as secreted as they might contain additional OM proteins.

For each of the three extractions only proteins that were present in all three biological replicates were considered for further analysis.To identify proteins that were unique or shared by the different fractions we constructed a Venn diagram that is depicted in Figure 2.

The three OmpM proteins found within the diderm cluster Vpar0555-7 are among the most abundant proteins in the OM fraction by both quantification of our LC-MSMS data Table S5 and SDS-PAGE band excision MS Bands 4 and 5 Table S6.

Subsequentand in some cases fluffy appearance of the outer moiety of the outer membrane Figure S4 is a strong indication for presence of LPS although an S-layer cannot completely be ruled out see below.An S-Layer in V. parvulaSurface layer proteins S-layer proteins are important cellular factors in both monoderms and diderms.

