there was a significant positive correlation r  0.418 p  0.0377. a red line indicates the regression line.high glucose induces expression of oraip in cultured cardiac myocytesnext to investigate the direct effect of hyperglycemia on cardiac myocytes especially the expression of oraip in cardiac myocytes we examined whether high glucose induces the expression of oraip in cardiac myocytes in vitro.

whereas many cardiac myocytes cultured under high concentration 55.5 mm of glucose clearly expressed oraip in granule-like morphology suggesting that abundant oraip molecules were being secreted.figure 2. high glucose induces expression of oraip in cardiac myocytes in vitro.

ac myocytes under normal concentration 5.55 mm of glucose for three days bd myocytes under high concentration 55.5 mm of glucose for three days.

we cultured cardiac myocytes under high glucose concentration 55.5 mm for 72 h and analyzed the expression of oraip in cardiac myocytes by double-immunostaining for oraip and cardiac myosin.

high glucose significantly induced the expression of oraip in cardiac myocytes resulting in massive apoptosis in cardiac myocytes in an autocrine fashion in vitro.

in this study to investigate the mechanism of cell injury of cardiac myocytes and pancreatic b-cells involved in diabetes mellitus dm we analyzed plasma oraip levels in dm model rats and the role of oraip in high glucose-induced apoptosis of cardiac myocytes in vitro.

this indicates that high glucose-induced apoptosis in cardiac myocytes was mostly mediated by oraip secreted by cardiac myocytes in an autocrine fashion.

we used 10 mgl of recombinant-oraip to induce apoptosis in cultured cardiac myocytes in the previous study  in which more than 70 cardiac myocytes underwent apoptosis in 72 h. this seemed to be an adequate concentration to analyze the apoptosis induction in vitro.

high glucose induced massive apoptosis in cardiac myocytes 66.2 - 2.2 which was 78 suppressed by neutralizing anti-oraip mab in vitro.

oraip will be a biomarker and a critical therapeutic target for cardiac injury and progression of dm itself.keywords apoptosis cardiac myocytes diabetes mellitus dm high glucose oxidative stress oxidative stress-responsive apoptosis inducing protein oraip pancreatic b-cellsintroductioncardiovascular injury involved in dm is known to be mainly due to coronary artery disease with myocardial ischemiareperfusion as well as direct metabolic cardiac myocyte injury by hyperglycemia.

the isolated cardiac myocytes were washed in dulbecco's modified eagle medium dmem containing 10 fetal calf serum fcs and 100 mgml glucose dispersed into plastic dishes for 1 h to separate the fibroblasts and removed to new gelatin-coated culture dishes.

as shown in figure ac cardiac myocytes cultured under normal glucose concentration 5.55 mm expressed only low or almost no expression of oraip.

bar 50 um.anti-oraip mab mostly suppressed high glucose-induced apoptosis in cultured cardiac myocytesto investigate the role of hyperglycemia in the cardiac myocyte injury we examined apoptosis induction of cardiac myocytes cultured under high concentration 55.5 mm of glucose for 7 days by tunel staining.

whereas high concentration 55.5 mm of glucose with control mouse igg 0.05 gl extensively induced apoptosis in cardiac myocytes 66 of whole cells which was 77 suppressed by treatment with an anti-oraip neutralizing mab ysp5-45-36 0.05 gl figure a23b.

as shown in figure a23 high concentration 55.5 mm of glucose induced morphological changes of cardiac myocytes which was thought to be due to high osmotic pressure.

