lanes 1 and 7 ladder lanes 2-6 were respectively the pcr products of d. mccartyi 16s rrna gene pcea gene tcea gene bvca gene and vcra gene with specific primers as shown in .

the contribution of the tcea gene to the total rdase genes tcea and vcra genes peaked at 72.26 after 4 d andthis corresponded well with the progress of the biodegradation process because tce was transformed into vc which is regulated by the tcea gene during the first 4 d. the amount of tcea gene pre- sent then remained stable with only slight variations while another rdase gene vcra increased over the following days and then began to exceed the tcea gene.

3. quantitative polymerase chain reaction results for the dehalococcoides mccartyi 16s rrna gene tcea gene and vcra gene shifts in a the positive controls and b the oxygen-amended treatments 7.5 vv oxygen in the bottle headspace.that tce effectively sustained d. mccartyi growth by acting as an electron acceptor.

4. quantitative polymerase chain reaction results for the dehalococcoides mccartyi 16s rrna gene tcea gene and vcra gene under different dissolved oxygen concentrations at the end of the experiment.fig.

filter-sterilized oxygen nitrogen when the oxygen concentration was 0 mgl was added to bottles using a gas-tight syringe to bring the oxygen concentra- tion in the headspace to 0 7.5 10.0 15.0 and 20.0 vv corre-sponding to do concentration of 0 2.7 3.6 5.4 and 7.2 mgl inwater respectively and duplicate bottles were performed for each concentration.

as can be seen in b the tcea gene concentration increased to 3.47 107 - 0.42 107 per ml after 32 d in the consortium exposed to oxygen 2.7 mg l. this was comparable to the concentration reached in the posi- tive control treatment although the rate of increase was lower in the consortium exposed to oxygen.

the qpcr analyses revealed that the d. mccartyi strains con- taining the tcea gene were less sensitive to exposure to oxygen than were the d. mccartyi strains containing the vcra gene.

oxygen exposure effects on the dechlorinating activities of a trichloroethene-dechlorination microbial consortiumna liu  haijun li  mengyan li  longzhen ding  chih-huang weng  cheng-di dong a key laboratory of groundwater resources and environment ministry of education jilin university changchun 130021 chinab department of chemistry and environment science new jersey institute of technology newark nj 07102 usac department of civil and ecological engineering i-shou university kaohsiung city 84008 taiwand department of marine environment engineering national kaohsiung marine university kaohsiung 81157 taiwanh i g h l i g h t s dehalococcoides mccartyi dhc exposed to o2 could degrade tce to eth.tcea gene-dhc was less sensitive to o2 exposure than vcra gene-dhc.non-dechlorinators were crucial to scavenge o2 to protect dhc from being damaged.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c t a r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 5 december 2016received in revised form 23 february 2017 accepted 24 february 2017available online 28 february 2017keywords trichloroethylene oxygendehalococcoides mccartyinon-dechlorinatorsa b s t r a c t the aim of this work was to study the effects of the presence of oxygen on the dechlorination of trichlor- oethene by a microbial consortium containing d. mccartyi.

exposing the consortium to oxygen altered the overall biotransformation rate of the dechlorination process biotransformation processes prolonged with oxygen concentrations changing from 0 to 7.2 mgl however trichloroethy- lene was eventually dechlorinated to ethene.

eight bottles were amended with filter-sterilized oxygen to bring the oxygen concen- tration to 2.7 mgl as the oxygen-amended treatments.

such results clearly indicated that the tce-degrading ability of a mix culture contain- ing d. mccartyi are much stronger than that of a pure culture d. mccartyi when oxygen is present in the medium.influence of oxygen on variations in the amounts of d. mccartyi 16s rrna tcea and vcra genes presentdechlorination of tce was directly completed by the functional microorganism i.e.

thus it is concluded that the non- dechlorinators had the potential to scavenge the oxygen present in the medium to recreate an anaerobic environment which is suitable for the d. mccartyi to survive.conclusionsthe microbial consortium containing d. mccartyi was able to dechlorinate tce to form eth with initial dissolved oxygen con- centration changed from 2.7 to 7.2 mgl but at a slower rate than was achieved in the positive controls.

illumina miseq sequencing of 16s rrna gene amplicons was likewise applied toanalyze the microbial community structure and composition changes of this consortium before and after oxygen was added.

because vcra gene plays a crucial role in transforming dechlorinated vc to ethene attention should be paid to ensure a successful bioremediation by utilizing microbial consortium containing d. mccartyi with this rdases gene.microbial community structure composition revealing oxygen scavengersthe variation of do concentration in the abiotic controls and the oxygen-amended treatments was monitored fig.

of d. mccartyi 16s rrna gene and three functional genes pcea tcea vcra which coded rdases that catalyzed the reduction of chloroethenes and bvca gene was absent in this mix culture.tce dechlorination in the presence of oxygenunder anaerobic condition a this microbial consortium converted tce quickly to eth all the amended tce was completely transformed into eth within 16 d. cis-12-dce vc and eth were sequentially appeared the concentration of cis-12-dce was rela- tive low which indicated a relative rapid transformation rate.

