eozone-cathode microbial desalination cell an innovative option to bioelectricity generation and water desalinationabdolmajid gholizadeh   ali asghar ebrahimi  mohammad hossein salmani mohammad hassan ehrampoush  a environmental science and technology research center department of environmental health engineering shahid sadoughi university of medical sciences yazd iranb esfarayen faculty of medical sciences esfarayen iranh i g h l i g h t s a new type of electron acceptors ozone was evaluated in mdcs.16 s rrna gene sequencing and sem images used to observe microbial community.salinity removal efficiency above 74 was observed in the o3-mdc.o3-mdc produced power density of 11 times higher than o2-mdc.proteobacteria are from the dominant microbial communities in anode biofilm.a r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 22 july 2017 received in revised form 1 september 2017accepted 2 september 2017available online 4 september 2017 handling editor e. brillaskeywordsozonationmicrobial desalination cell mdc electricity generationa b s t r a c t microbial desalination cell mdc is a new approach of water desalination methods which is based on ionic species removal from water in proportion to the electric current generated by bacteria.

a new bes for partial or complete water desalination is the microbial desalination cell mdc which integrates microbial fuel cell mfc and electrodial- ysis ed processes to treat wastewater desalinate saline waters and simultaneously produce electricity in a single reactor  o'.a typical mdc is fabricated from three chambers anode middle and cathode chambers separated by cation exchange membranes cem and anion exchange membrane aem.

here the performance of mdc using ozone as a new electron acceptor o3-mdc was evaluated versus another operated independently with oxygen o2-mdc.

results showed the maximum open-circuit voltages of 628 and 1331 mv for 20 g l-1 nacl desalination in o2-mdc and o3- mdc respectively.

the o3-mdc produced a maximum power density of 4.06 w m-2 about 11 times higher than o2-mdc while at the same time was able to remove about 74 of salt 55.58 in the o2- mdc.

accordingly the results revealed that ozone can enhance mdc performance either as a desalination process or as a pre-treatment reactor for downstream desalination processes.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionsafe drinking water is an essential for humans and other living beings.

thus loss of ionic species from the middle chamber results in desalination of water without any external feed pressure additional waste and external elec- tricity requirements.in an mdc the ion removal rate is affected by many factors such as salt concentration reactor volume retention time of wastewater and ion solution membrane surface area microbial oxidation rate and the ultimate electron acceptor used in cathode chamber  .

used ferricyanide as the catholyte of mdc to desalinate water and the maximum power density of 2 w m-2 31 w m-3 was produced in their reactor.

air-cathode mdc reduced the conduc- tivity of 5 g l-1 and 20 g l-1 nacl solutions only by 43 - 6 and 50 - 7 respectively.

used microalgae of chlorella vulgaris as an oxygen generator in mdc cathode chamber and observed the maximum power density of 20.25 mw m-2 in the system.

nevertheless there are still some ambiguities to be addressed how to use certain oxidants with the ability to accept electrons and which processes can be selected to improve the mdc performance.according to what mentioned above if the compounds with high redox potentials such as ozone are used in the cathode chamber it is expected to produce a more electrical current be- tween cathode and anode which will increase the ion removal efficiency.

so this study aimed to evaluate the ozone capability as a new cathodic electron acceptor in the mdc.

respectivelyo3th2hthth2e-o2thh2oeo 14 207 v1o2 th 4hth th 4e-2h2oeo 14 123 v2the obtained results in terms of salinity removal and electricity generation were compared with those of another mdc operated with oxygen o2-mdc.

moreover changes in morphology of anode surface created by biofilm formation and microbial community existing in the reactors were investigated by scanning electron microscopy sem and 16s rrna gene-sequencing techniques respectively.material and methodsmdc configurationall experiments on o2-mdc and o3-mdc were conducted independently in a 3-cell mdc as shown in .

1. three-chamber mdc used for desalination tests a schematic and b actual image.mdc the catholyte was continuously diffused by ozone at the rate of 8.36 mg min-1.

