vaginalislactobacilli mycoplasma parvimonas sneathiadecreased lactobacilli and increased mycoplasmaparvimonas and sneathia abundances in t. vaginalis- positive subjectsplasmodiumfalciparumbifidobacterium streptococcushigher proportion of bifidobacterium and streptococcusorganisms in a low-infection-risk grouphighlight the impact of the microbiota on infections with enteric protozoa and on infection with extraintestinal plasmodium parasites.mucosal parasites and microbiota interactions in human populationsmucosal infection with the enteric protozoa entamoeba giardia cryptosporidium and blastocystis can be asymptomatic or cause diarrhea abdominal pain andor weight loss.

a retrospective study of volunteers who were originally enrolled in cryptosporidium infectivity studies  examined the relationship between the relative abundances of several bacterial taxa commonly found in adults prior to or within 48 h of infection and infection outcomes.

the preliminary finding of an association between gut microbiota composition and p. falciparum infection risk suggests that alteration of the composition of the intestinal microbiota may decrease the risk of p. falciparum infection in areas where malaria is endemic and may potentially augment partially effective malaria vaccines  .gut bacteria might influence extraintestinal disease via many pathways such as by alteration of adaptive immunity and augmentation of the magnitudes of t cells and b cell-mediated responses and perhaps by enhancement of innate immune pathways via trained immunity .

therefore the intestinal microbiota may influence the clinical outcome of a plasmodium infection via alteration of the metabolome and modulation of innate or adaptive immunity.alteration of the microbiota as a therapy for protozoan infectionspatient cohorts and future microbiome epidemiological studies will establish a more complete understanding of variation in clinical presentations of infection with parasitic protozoa.

this study suggests that differences in antibiotic usage and their effects on the human microbiome might be important factors to consider when evaluating the clinical outcome of a giardia infection.murine plasmodium infection and the microbiotarecently the influence of the microbiota on plasmodium infection was explored by utilizing genetically similar inbred strains of mice c57bl6 maintained by different vendors jackson laboratory taconic farms the national cancer institutecharles river nci and harlan .

however recent work in murine models provides a demonstration of how protozoan infection might provide protection from infection while exacerbating colitis.tritrichomonas musculis is a common murine commensal found in wild mice and some animal colonies.

the courses of both mucosal and systemic parasite infection may also be shaped by specific members of the microbiota and in turn parasite infection may alter the microbiota in such a way that the unique signature can be diagnostic of the presence of the parasite.the exact mechanisms underlying microbiota modulation of host immunity are not yet fully understood however it is becoming increasingly apparent that components of the microbiota can alter both innate and adaptive immune cell populations so that a more robust response is mounted following subsequent challenge with infectious agents including parasitic protozoa.

changes in the composition of the intestinal microbiota may increase resistance to infection at mucosal sites as well as alter systemic immunity to theseparasites .parasitic protozoans and the scope of the public health impactworldwide diarrhea is currently the second leading cause of death in children younger than 5 years of age and is associated with around 500000 deaths per year .

changes in the composition of the intestinal microbiota image 1 may increase resistance to parasite infection at mucosal sites such as the intestine by mechanisms such as decreased virulence or parasite adherence image 2. changes in the microbiota may also alter systemic immunity to parasites by alteration of granulopoiesis or adaptive immunity image 3. a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying microbiota- mediated protection may help explain clinical variability and help treat parasitic protozoan infections.4 infections  .

entamoeba species infection was predicted by the composition of an individual's gut microbiota with 79 accuracy in a study of the farming and fishing populations in southwest cameroon .

one of the most impor- tant taxa in predicting an infection with entamoeba was prevotellaceae.

both studies suggest that microbiota composition may play a significant role during an e. histolytica infection.

these studies also highlight the potential influence of inflamma- tion driven by the gut microbiome in altering parasite infection outcomes  .

the patients that were protected from infection had a greater abundance of proteobacteria and lower bacteriodetes and verrucomicrobia levels than infected subjects.

presently the mechanism by which increased indole production may protect from cryptosporidium is unknown.indole may directly adversely affect the parasite or perhaps alter host tissues to enhance the innate response by increasing epithelial integrity  andor stimulating anti-inflammatory pathways  .a study of intestinal parasite infection in individuals in southern cote d'ivoire utilizing pcr-temporal temperature gel electrophoresis ttge and quantitative pcr demonstrated that ttge profiles clustered into four significantly different groups i.e.

