As a result the potential effects of parasites on pathogenesis and disease due to disturbance of the host's microbiome have yet to be fully explored and the role of parasite- associated microbes in disease development and parasite evolution has arguably been underestimated.Therefore the central goal of the PMP is to further propel parasitology forward by characterizing the microbiomes of parasites from undersampled representative phyla across the tree of life and elucidating their interactions with host-associated microbes and functions throughout the parasite life cycle.

Parasitic microbes that are integrated members of the host-associated microbiome can either harbor their own associated microbiome or cause changes in the resident host-associated microbiome in a complex set of poten- tially nested interactions.

However it often remains unknown whether the disruption of the host microbiome is beneficial for the parasite participates in the host defense mech- anism against the parasite or is merely a by-product of infection.

The project will also shed light on the role of parasites as vectors of microbes among intermediate and definitive hosts on the dynamics of horizontal transmission of microbes between hosts and parasites and on the corresponding impacts on parasite transmission and disease.As an initial approach we will launch a large-scale sequencing campaign including targeted surveys and metagenomes that will use standardized methodologies e.g.

.Shi M Lin X-D Tian J-H Chen L-J Chen X Li C-X Qin X-C Li J Cao J-P Eden J-S Buchmann J Wang W Xu J Holmes EC Zhang Y-Z.

.Chng KR Chan SH Ng AHQ Li C Jusakul A Bertrand D Wilm A Choo SP Tan DMY Lim KH Soetinko R Ong CK Duda DG Dima S Popescu I Wongkham C Feng Z Yeoh KG Teh BT Yongvanit P Wongkham S Bhudhisawasdi V Khuntikeo N Tan P Pairojkul C Ngeow J Nagarajan N. 2016.

.Itthitaetrakool U Pinlaor P Pinlaor S Chomvarin C Dangtakot R Chaidee A Wilailuckana C Sangka A Lulitanond A Yongvanit P. 2016.

This realization has propelled numerous large-scale microbiome projects including the Human Micro- biome Project and the Earth Microbiome Project to better understand the microbiome in both healthy and disease states NIH Human Microbiome Project Roadmap Project  and The Earth Microbiome Project data site .

With an initial focus on eukaryotic parasites the PMP aims to fill important gaps in our understanding of parasite-microbe associations and the outcomes of parasitic infection by character- izing across space and time i the microbiome including virome composition of parasites and ii the microbiome of parasite-infected host tissues.

It is also an invitation to foundations and national funding agencies to propel the field of parasitology into the microbiomemetagenomic era.KEYWORDS ecology microbiome parasitologyharacterizations of parasite diversity and interactions with hosts as well as the development of effective control methods are among the chief goals of parasitol- ogy.

