Unfortunately the authors did not determine microbiota composition so it is not possible to discern whether the beneficial effect arose only from the provision of nutrients to intestinal epithelial cells or whether it was co-associated with a shift in microbiota composition.PN and ProPrebiotic TreatmentWe recently showed that the microbiota of adult SBS patients dependent on total parenteral nutrition is depleted of anaerobic butyrate producers and that the amount of SCFA particularly propionate and butyrate in luminal content is accordingly very low .

Huang Y. Guo F. Li Y. Wang J. Li J. Fecal microbiota signatures of adult patients with different types of short bowel syndrome.

Nevertheless this innovative study points out an unexpected aspect of PN namely the interplay of the gut microbiota and lipid components of the nutrition mixture.Patients with Small Intestinal Resections Fed vs. Enterally Deprived Portions of the IntestineThe common denominator for all of the above therapeutic or experimental settings is the absence of enteral nutrition which leaves the intestinal microbiota in a state of acute nutrient withdrawal.

However FXR and TGR5 have different affinities to individual BAs as FXR is activated by CDCA  DCA  LCA  CA and TGR5 is activated by LCA  DCA  CDCA  CA .Interplay Between Bile Acids and the Gut MicrobiotaBecause the transformation of BAs is solely dependent on the gut microbiota the extent of BA receptor activation is largely dependent on microbiota composition .

Suppression of the intestinal microbiota with broad-spectrum antibiotics and ablation of TLR4 signalling in Tlr4 mutant mice prevented PNALD development which strongly suggests the role of the microbiota in its etiopathogenesis.

Therapeutic strategies focus on microbiota composition itself through the targeted delivery of beneficial microbiota products or by supplementation with immunomodulators.

Burcelin R. Serino M. Chabo C. Garidou L. Pomie C. Courtney M. Amar J. Bouloumie A. Metagenome and metabolism The tissue microbiota hypothesis.

Wang P. Wang Y. Lu L. Yan W. Tao Y. Zhou K. Jie J. Wei C. Alterations in intestinal microbiota relate to intestinal failure-associated liver disease and central line infections.

Finally we provide an overview of recent advances in the therapeutic utilisation of pro- and prebiotics for the mitigation of PN-associated liver complications.Keywords Parenteral nutrition microbiota PNALD intestinal permeability gut-associated immune system bile acids FXR signalling preprobioticsIntroductionParenteral nutrition PN provides life-saving nutritional support in situations where caloric supply via the enteral route is either not possible or cannot cover the necessary needs of the organism e.g.

The gut microbiota is the most abundant cohort of antigen-presenting cells.

