berstad a norwegian drug and therapeutic formulary oslo norwayb unit of oral and maxillofacial surgery department of head and neck surgery division for head neck and reconstructive surgery oslo university hospital national hospital oslo norwaya r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 25 january 2017accepted 25 may 2017keywords parkinson's disease actinobacteria actinomycesfungiray fungus alpha-synuclein hyphaespores macroautophagy moldgut microbiota olfactorya b s t r a c t the authors support the hypothesis that a causative agent in parkinson's disease pd might be either fungus or bacteria with fungus-like properties - actinobacteria and that their spores may serve as 'infec- tious agents'.

the spore model may also explain the sus-tained lower incidence seen among former smokers the role of a-syn as part of the body's defense mechanism how pesticides apart from fungicides may act as facilitators and how this ''environmen- tal factor may ''survive the als only to be reactivated when als fails.

these studies and knowing that several pathogens as viruses bacteria and toxins may enter via the noseto reach the brain via retrograde axonal transport  may support the hypothesis that a potential causative agent in pd may enter in the periphery most likely in the nose mouth throatstomach or gut and then is escorted by a-syn via retrograde axonaltransport to the brain.accordingly at least five steps seem essential for a potential causal agent first the agent must encounter both the olfactory nerve probably the glossopharyngeal nerve and the ens.

despite but while the macroautophagic pathway is working properly some endospores may hibernate but when its function fails due to age or genetics the spore may become reactivated.the ''autoprion versus the spore modelgiven the unlimited number of agents that may trigger a-syn misfolding at the nerve endings and that this in turn induces a direct detrimental escalating prion-like effect of a-syn the auto- prion model of lpd in theory most people should get lpd when the als fails.

the spore model may also be of rele- vance in other neurodegenerative diseases.conclusionin accordance with broxmeyer's hypothesis and supported by the evaluation above pd may be due to reactivation of spores either fungal or bacterial in the brain - perhaps involving some form of mold or more likely - endospores from an actinomycete.

a53t isrelated to epd indicates that a-syn in some way is part of thebody's defense mechanism as 'police on patrol' or 'wranglers' .hence despite misfolded a-syn by itself may induce neurotox-icity and aggravate the disease in a prion-like manner it is most likely an initiating unknown agent and not misfolded a-syn that is the triggering factor and thus the true cause of pd.transport nervesone common feature of neurons that contain lp with misfolded a-syn is that they all have long thin axons with a thin or absent myelin sheath.

numerous can- didates as causative agents have been proposed toxins metals pesticides bacteria viruses  various medications and in partic- ular antibiotics nutrients and components secondary to altered gut microbiota.why parkinson's disease could be caused by fungi oractinobacteriaa-synuclein - part of the body's defense mechanismthe characteristic lewy pathology bodies and neurites in the diseased neurons contain aggregates composed of amyloid fibrils of misfolded variant of the protein a-synuclein a-syn.

front neuroanat 20148159..lema tome cm tyson t rey nl grathwohl s britschgi m brundin p. inflammation and a-synuclein's prion-like behavior in parkinson's disease - is there a link mol neurobiol 2013472561-74. .

the emerging role of autophagic- lysosomal dysfunction in gaucher disease and parkinson's disease.

spinal cord lesions that may contribute to clinical symptoms as constipation may be present in stages 2 but are not found in stage 1 .

the spore model may even explain why at least some genetic mutations may lead to epd.

evaluation of updated available information are all consistent with the hypothesis that pd may be induced by spores from fungi or actinobacteria and thus supports broxmeyer's hypothesis put forward 15 years ago.c 2017 the authors.

despite substantial research the exact role of genetics in pd pathogenesis has remained unclarified .the epidemiology of pd may to some extent resemble that of peptic ulcer disease which is caused by the bacterium helicobacter pylori.

a- syn may induce toxicity by several mechanisms  has been ascribed prion-like properties  and to inhibit mitochondrialenergy production .given that healthy neurons contain abundant unfolded a-syn and that a-syn misfolding and aggregation are linked to the pd pathology it is plausible that the misfolding and aggregation of a-syn is somehow involved in or part of the body's response to a potentially harmful agent.

therefore it may be that a-syn should be regarded as the nervous system's 'police on patrol' striving to trap and disarm potentially harmful agents.

