remarkably our results indicated that the fecal microbiota composition was more similar among uc patients than among healthy individuals figure 1. these findings further demonstrated that the gut microbiota composition and alterations to it plays a crucial role in the occurrence of uc.although the cause of uc has many uncertain factors gut microbiota dysbiosis has been considered a major trigger of inflammation23.

additionally the pathways involved in membrane transport and metabolism of cofactors and vitamins were more abundant in the healthy partners.conclusionour results suggested that the microbial composition might be affected in healthy partners cohabiting with uc patients especially in terms of microbiota dysbiosis.key words ulcerative colitis patients healthy partner fecal microbial communities microbiota dysbiosisc the authors 2017. published by baishideng publishing group inc. all rights reserved.increasingly prevalent in developed countries over the past two decades1.

theactinobacteriacoriobacteriaceae unclassified0.021entire microbiota of uc patients was not significantlyfigure 2 significant differences in the fecal microbiota composition between ulcerative colitis patients and their healthy partners.

the down arrows indicate less abundant microbiota in ulcerative colitis uc patients and the up arrow represents the more abundant microbiota in uc patients compared with their healthy partners.16s rrna amplicon-sequencing of fecal dna samples was performed using next-generation sequencing ngs technology.

as shown in figure 2 at the genus level 10 genera were less abundant in the fecal microbiota of uc patients compared with that in their healthy partners and only one bacterium was more abundant in the uc patients p  0.05. at the phylum level nine significantly different bacteria species belonged to the firmicutes and the other bacteria were classified as actinobacteria and bacteroidetes.in this study the fecal microbiota in the uc patients showed a decrease in the firmicutes bacteria especially blautia clostridium coprococcus and roseburia.

couples with uc have microbiota dysbiosis100806040200uc1 hf1uc2 hf2uc4 hf4uc5 hf5uc6 hf6lactobacillus bacteroides parabacteroides akkermansia escherichia klebsiellafigure 3 relative abundance at the genus level as shown by 16s rrna gene sequencing from ulcerative colitis patients and their partners showing a microbiota imbalance.

for example in hf6 the relative abundance of the klebsiella genus reached 63.3. akkermansia belonging to the verrucomicrobia phylum was only detected in patient uc4 and his partner accounting for 18.46 and 68.74 respectively figure 3. microbiota dysbiosis destroys the gut microbiota composition and influences its normal function which might accelerate the occurrence of intestinal disease.microbial metabolic pathwayscombining the microbial composition with a genome database from kegg kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes 328 pathways were identified.

the pathway involved in purine metabolism was also enriched in the uc patients p  0.019. in contrast there was a decrease in porphyrin and chlorophyll metabolism in the uc patients p  0.032. in addition the microbiota of the uc patients had fewer abc transporters for membrane transport p  0.041.discussionalteration in the composition of the gut microbiota and decreases in community diversity are associated with the pathogenesis of uc20.

although there was no direct evidence that gut microbiota could spread between ibd patients and normal individuals the results of this study suggested that fecal microbiota likely influence each other during long-term cohabitation with uc patients.

couples with uc have microbiota dysbiosistest r v3.1.2 was used to compare inter-individual differences.

differences with a p value  0.05 were considered statistically significant.resultsfecal microbial communities were more similar among uc patients than their healthy partners p  0.024. uc individuals had a lower relative abundance of bacteria belonging to the firmicutes  especially blautia  clostridium  coprococcus and roseburia p 0.05. microbiota dysbiosis was detected in uc patients and their healthy partners.

some alterations in the microbial community are shared in crohn's disease cd and uc patients relative to healthy people including reduced gut microbiota diversity particularly firmicutes the presence of non- commensals and increased abundance of pathogenic proteobacteria strains78.

for example an increased presence of escherichia coli and fusobacterium spp group6 as well as a reduction in clostridium coccoides group has been reported in uc patients9.previous studies have demonstrated that environ- mental factors including dietary age9 habits10 and obesity11 impact the composition of the gut microbiota.

couples with uc have microbiota dysbiosiscommunity between couples.

additionally the current study investigates the predominant fecal microbiota of uc patients compared with their healthy cohabiting partners.materials and methods2 x high-fidelity pcr master mix and hf buffer p5 p7 primers including adapters and sample barcodes illumina and reagent-grade water.

