relative to hp-treated milk both uvc-treated milk and up showed greater activities of lipase and alkaline phosphatase and concentrations of lactoferrin secretory immunoglobulin a xanthine dehydrogenase and some antioxidant markers all p  0.05. the pigs fed uvc-treated milk and pigs fed up showed higher relative weight gain than pigs fed hp-treated milk 5.4 and 3.5 and fewer pigs fed uvc-treated milk had positive bacterial cultures in the bone marrow 28 than pigs fed hp-treated milk 68 p  0.05. intestinal health was also improved in pigs fed uvc-treated milk compared with those fed hp-treated milk as indicated by a higher plasma citrulline concentration 36 and villus height 38 p  0.05 and a tendency for higher aminopeptidase n 48 and claudin-4 26 concentrations in the distal intestine p  0.08. the gut microbiota composition was similar among groups except for greater proportions of enterococcus in pigs fed uvc-treated milk than in pigs fed up and those fed hp-treated milk in both cecum contents 20 and 10 and distal intestinal mucosa 24 and 20 all p  0.05. conclusions uvc is better than hp treatment in preserving bioactive factors in dm.

blood biochemistry variables were generally similar between pigs fed up and pigs fed uvc- treated milk and some variables showed higher values in pigs fed hp-treated milk than in those fed up or uvc-treated milk supplemental table 4. at the time of death total blood leukocyte and neutrophil counts were higher in pigs fed up than in those fed uvc-treated milk whereas lymphocyte counts were higher in pigs fed hp-treated milk than in pigs fed uvc- treated milk both p  0.05 supplemental table 5. other hematological parameters did not differ between groups.

the incidence of bacteremia at the time of death was similar between groups 33 across groups whereas the incidence of osteo- myelitis was higher in pigs fed hp-treated milk than in those fed uvc-treated milk and intermediate in pigs fed up p  0.05 figure 4a.enterobacteriaceae enterococcus and staphylococcus were the main bacterial family and genera found in both blood and bone marrow figure 4b c. in the bone marrow of pigs fed up the gram-negative enterobacteriaceae appeared dominant whereas in pigs fed hp-treated milk and pigs fed uvc-treated milk the gram-positive enterococcus and staphylococcus were more dominant although the differences were not statistically significant figure 4c.

nec lesions in the small intestine were observed only in pigs fed up and the mean intestinal nec score was higher in pigs fed up than that in pigs fed hp- or uvc-treated milk both p  0.05 table 2.figure 4 incidence of osteomyelitis in neonatal pigs fed up hp- treated human milk or uvc-treated human milk for 8-9 d a total bacterial load and the predominant family and genera in blood b and bone marrow c and plasma c-reactive protein and il-6 concentrations at study end in those with  and without 2 osteomyelitis or bacteremia d. values are percentages a or means 6 sems n  16-19 b n  16-19 c n  17-34 d. labeled means without a common letter differ p  0.05.different from  in either bone marrow or blood respectivelyp  0.05 p  0.01 p  0.001. crp c-reactive protein hp holder pasteurization up unpasteurized donor milk uvc uv-c irradiation.1126 li et al.blood biochemistry cell counts systemic bacteria and circulating infection markers.

in the prox intestine villi were shorter in pigs fed hp-treated milk than in pigs fed up and those fed uvc-treated milk p  0.05 figure 5a whereas in the mid and dist regions pigs fed hp-treated milk showed decreased villi length compared with those fed uvc-treated milk p  0.05 with intermediate values in pigs fed up.

gene expression for il1b il8 tnf ocln and cldn did not differ among the groups although gene expression of il8 was increased in pigs with osteomyelitis supplemental table 6.figure 5 concentrations of plasma citrulline on day 5 and at study end a villus height b and activities of apn c and apa d in prox mid and dist of neonatal pigs fed up hp-treated human milk or uvc- treated human milk for 8-9 d. values are means 6 sems n  17-19. labeled means at a time or for a region without a common letter differ p  0.05. apa aminopeptidase a apn aminopeptidase n dist distal small intestine euth euthanization hp holder pasteur- ization mid middle small intestine prox proximal small intestine up unpasteurized donor milk uvc uv-c irradiation.citrulline concentrations in pigs fed hp-treated milk were lower than in those fed uvc-treated milk p  0.05 and tended to be lower than in pigs fed up p  0.09 although concentrations were similar at the time of death figure 5b.

fifty-seven preterm pigs were delivered from 4 sows by cesarean delivery at 106 d of gestation large white danish 3 landrace 3 duroc askelygaard farm full term  116 6 2 d. surgical procedures with an orogastric feeding tube and an umbilical catheter for parental nutrition and sow's plasma for passive immunization were performed as described previously 12. the pigs were stratified according to birth weight and sex into 3 groups receiving up hp-treated dm and uvc-treated dm n  19group ratio of males to females 3027. the pigs were color-coded to mask the treatments to pig care-takers and researchers.

to mimic the feeding strategy in preterm infants pigs received gradually increasing volumes of dm from 24 ml  kg21  d21 at birth to 144 ml  kg21  d21 on day 6 increasing by 24 ml  kg21  d21 and volumes were kept at this amount until the pigs were killed on days 8-9. to compensate for the small initial enteral volume pigs also received parenteral nutrition at a rate of 96 ml  kg21  d21 from birth gradually reduced to 48 ml  kg21  d21 on day 5 decreasing by 12 ml  kg21  d21 and continued at this amount until tissue collection.

the slight variability in the number of samples for individual parameters was due to the euthanasia of a few clinically1124 li et al.figure 3 body weight a and relative weight gain b of neonatal pigs fed up hp-treated human milk or uvc-treated human milk for 8-9 d. relative weight gain was calculated according to the formula relative weight gain   weight dayn 2 birth weightbirth weight 3100. values are means 6 sems n  18 or 19. labeled means at a time without a common letter differ p  0.05. hp holder pasteur- ization up unpasteurized donor milk uvc uv-c irradiation.affected pigs before the planned end of the study combined with the unavailability of some biological samples for a few pigs e.g.

the intestinal transit time on day 5 was faster in pigs fed hp-treated milk than in pigs fed up p  0.05 and was intermediate in pigs fed uvc-treated milk supporting the clinical evaluation of diarrhea.

dehydration was observed more frequently in pigs fed hp-treated milk than in pigs fed up p  0.05 with intermediate values for pigs fed uvc-treated milk throughout the study period.

in our previous studies the incidence of osteomyelitis was 94 for preterm pigs fed a commercial infant formula for 5 d 14 and 60 for preterm pigs fed pasteurized dm for 9 d j sun y li pt sangild unpublished results 2017. interestingly treatment with oral antibiotics reduced the incidence of osteomyelitis from 94 to 19 in formula-fed preterm pigs whereas systemic antibiotics had negligible effects 14. these results indicate that efforts to decrease bacterial translocation from the immature intestine may be very important in preventing systemic infections and sepsis in preterm neonates.the mechanism whereby uvc-treated milk reduces bacterial translocation may relate to its higher concentrations of antimi- crobial proteins and peptides such as siga lysozyme and lactoferrin.

there were no significant differences between the hp up and uvc groups in birth weights weights at death figure 3a life time overall growth rates and organ weights or lengths supplemental table 3. by the end of the study pigs fed uvc-treated milk and pigs fed up had gained more weight than did those fed hp-treated milk p  0.05 figure 3b.

two pigs fed hp-treated milk and 3 pigs fed up were euthanized 1-2 d before they were scheduled to be killed because of dehydration or clinical signs of nec or sepsis.

interestingly when pigs with osteomyelitis were compared with those without the protein concentrations of il-6 and il-8 were elevated and the concentration of claudin-4 was decreased in the dist all p  0.05 figure 6b-d. none of these protein levels differed between pigs with and without bacteremia.

