the common end pathway of uncontrolled inflammation is macrophage activation syndrome which can be associated with one or more of these phenotypes or an inability to remove the source of inflammation for other reasons or the presence of other pediatric hyper-inflammatory syndromes including the caps cryopyrin associated autoinflammatory periodic syndromes spectrum.hla - human leukocyte antigen tnf - tumor necrosis factor lps - lipopolysaccharidetamof - thrombocytopenia associated multiple organ failure plt ct - platelet count aki- acute kidney injury dic - disseminated intravascular coagulation smof - sequentialcarcillo et al.page 21multiple organ failure ebv - epstein barr virus sfasl - soluble fas ligand il - interleukincarcillo et al.page 22figure 3.phenotype specific therapies reported as effective in resolving inflammation and facilitating mods recovery.hla - human leukocyte antigen tnf - tumor necrosis factor lps - lipopolysaccharidetamof - thrombocytopenia associated multiple organ failure plt ct - platelet count aki- acute kidney injury dic - disseminated intravascular coagulation smof - sequential multiple organ failure ivig- intravenous immunoglobulin ptld - post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder hlh - hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis sfasl - soluble fas ligand irap - interleukin-1 il-1 receptor antagonist proteincarcillo et al.page 23figure 4.the dynamic immune response in mods.

2010 11785-797. pubmed 20720586carcillo et al.page 13legendre cm licht c muus p et al.

2001 13114-119. pubmed 11154927carcillo et al.page 15wang h bloom o zhang m et al.

2010 464104-107. pubmed 20203610carcillo et al.page 16nakahira k kyung sy rogers aj et al.

2014 401313-1322. pubmed 24981955carcillo et al.page 17hotchkiss rs tinsley kw swanson pe et al.

2016 sep 14. epub ahead of print.carcillo et al.page 19figure 1.four conditions are observed in pediatric mods 1 reduced cytochrome p450 activity 2 increased circulating damage associated molecular pattern molecules damps 3 increased circulating pathogen associated molecular pattern molecules pamps and 4 macrophage activation driven cytokine release associated with epithelial endothelial mitochondrial and immune cell dysfunction and apoptosis.carcillo et al.page 20figure 2.environmental and genetic factors can impair the ability of the child with mods to resolve inflammation 1 immunoparalysis is a condition in which antigen presenting cells are unable to present and remove microbes and dead tissue 2 thrombocytopenia associated multiple organ failure tamof is a condition in which complement activation is unopposed by inhibitory complement and von willebrand factor vwf microvascular thrombosis is unopposed by adamts13 vwf cleaving protease and 3 sequential mods is a condition in which ctl and nk cells cannot induce virus cancer or activated immune cell death and sfasl-fas interactions cause liver failure.

immune paralysis associated mods patients have impaired ability to resolve infection and have associated environmental causes ofaddress correspondence to joseph a carcillo md university of pittsburgh school of medicine 412-692-6737.carcillo et al.page 2lymphocyte apoptosis.

full recovery of organ functions is noted six to eighteen weeks later when epithelial endothelial mitochondrial and immune cell regeneration and reprogramming is completed.keywordsdamage associated molecular pattern molecules damps pathogen associated molecular pattern molecules pamps cytochrome p450 metabolism mitochondria thrombocytopenia associated mof sequential mof immunoparalysis macrophage activation syndromestate of the scienceoverviewbaue et al first described multiple system organ failure msof in a case series of general surgery patients who died after three days in the intensive care unit icu with sequential respiratory and then hepato-renal organ failures rather than from shock in the first three days of critical illness 1-6. at autopsy these patients had a persistent nidus of inflammation which baue hypothesized was the catalyst of msof.

decreased cytochrome p450 activity has been found to be inversely correlated with degree of cytokinemia and organ dysfunctions supporting a role of altered metabolism in allowing pathologic inflammation 16. the 'danger hypothesis' 17 posits that injury to endogenous cells releases damage-associated molecular patterns damps that alter antigen presenting cells responses to exogenous antigens or pathogen-associated molecular patternscarcillo et al.page 3pamps in a way that amplifies the cytokine response.

a spectrum of three inflammation pathobiology phenotypes has been described figures 2 and 3. the first phenotype thrombocytopenia associated mods has low adamts13 activity formerly known as von willebrand factor vwf cleaving protease acute kidney injury with extensive endothelial activation and systemic vwf multimer thrombotic microangiopathy in brain kidneys and lungs 28-30. this has been related to oligogenic deficiencies in genes which produce inhibitory complement as well as adamts13 that can lead to complement and thrombosis over-activation 31-41. this form of mods has been successfully treated with the combination of eculizumab c5a monoclonal antibody and plasma exchange restores adamts13 activity 42-50. hemolysis-derived free hemoglobin also drives this phenotype related to both adamts13 inhibition and macrophage activation 51-54. this endothelial activation phenotype can be experimentally produced with monoclonal antibodies to adamts13 or with hemorrhage damp stimulation and subsequent endotoxin pamp stimulation 55 56.the second phenotype sequential mods develops sfasl-fas mediated liver failure with associated oligogenic deficiencies in genes related to perforin and granzyme signaling that lead to slow resolution of lymphocyte and macrophage activation and proliferation 57. this can be reproduced experimentally in perforin  granzyme signaling knockout mice which develop mods when exposed to an otherwise innocuous viral antigen challenge 58- 60. patients with the homozygous mutant form of the disease are treated with chemotherapy including etoposide to target lymphoproliferation and then eventually bone marrow transplantation to restore cytotoxic t lymphocyte ctl  natural killer nk cell function 61. patients with the oligogenic heterozygous form are treated with solumedrol intravenous immunoglobulin ivig and biologics including interleukin-1 receptor antagonist protein irap 6162. the third phenotype immune paralysis associated mods has impaired ability to kill infection which can be related in part to environmental factors that induce lymphoid depletion such as chemotherapy prolonged use of dexamethasone and overuse of immune suppressants 63-65. treatments may includecarcillo et al.page 4immune suppressant tapering and use of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor gm-csf 64-67.hyper-inflammation among these three phenotypes whether associated with hyper- complementemia lack of ctl and nk cell function or inability to kill infection and mount tissue repair can all result in the macrophage activation syndrome mas manifested clinically as hyper-ferritinemia  500 ngml hepatobiliary dysfunction and disseminated intravascular coagulation.

treatment with neutralizing anti-hmgb1 antibodies can rescue mice from lipopolysaccharide lps or sepsis-induced lethality 80 thereby solidifying its role as acarcillo et al.page 5potential therapeutic target.

in critical illness acquired deficits in atp production and other mitochondrial functions as a consequence of hypoxemia ischemia and inflammation can impair cellular bioenergeticscarcillo et al.page 6accelerate oxidant stress and disrupt key metabolic pathways 92. thus mitochondrial dysfunction has been implicated as a final common pathway in the pathogenesis of organ dysfunction in sepsis trauma cardiac arrest and other life-threatening illnesses.several lines of evidence support a role for mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of mods.

it is increasingly evident however that the subacute course of critical illness is associated with an attenuated response of the host immune system so-called immunoparalysis figure 4. investigators have identifiedcarcillo et al.page 7infections from opportunistic pathogens unresolved sources of infection at autopsy and reactivation of latent viruses all consistent with a functional alteration of host immunity following the acute insult 107.it is now recognized that the host immune response in critical illness is highly dynamic with systemic inflammation often concomitant with suppression of leukocyte numbers and function.

this is particularly important because evidence suggests that immunoparalysis can be reversible through the use of medicationscarcillo et al.page 8such as gm-csf or interferon gamma with beneficial effects on outcomes in properly selected patients 66107120.innate immune function in critical illness has been measured through the quantitation of monocyte antigen presenting capacity andor cytokine production capacity.

the fas-fas ligand fas and fasl molecules are among the key regulators of apoptosis ofcarcillo et al.page 9activated immune cells 129. fas is a type 1 transmembrane protein of the tnf-receptor family.

