in contrast to sp1-injected ticks the 500000 mw dextran was predominantly lo- calized outside gut lumen suggesting that p1 injection of ticks re- duces the thickness of the pm permitting the large-sized dextran beads to pass from the gut lumen through the pm and out of the gut fig.

these observations might also explain in part the generally lower prevalence of a. phagocytophilum and b. burgdorferi-coinfected ticks 1 to 6 versus ticks coinfected with b. burgdorferi and babesia microti 2 to 19 68. nevertheless further studies using both laboratory and field coinfected ticks will be required to delineate the role of microbiota on infections with multiple pathogens.defining the interactions between the tick gut and a. phag- ocytophilum colonization furthers our understanding of the key events that determine prevalence of this common tick-borne infectious disease.

phagocytophilum coopts this tick protein to best potentiate its infection in ticks.iafgp the i. scapularis antifreeze glycoprotein is induced by ticks in the presence of a. phagocytophilum 26 and silencing iafgp impairs a. phagocytophilum colonization of the gut.

we have demonstrated the importance of the normal gut microbiota of the blacklegged tick ixodes scapularis a major vector of the lyme disease agent borrelia burgdorferi in the effective colonization of the tick by the spirochete 10. un- derstanding the interactions between arthropod gut microbiota and the pathogens that ticks transmit in both a positive and negative manner may provide new strategies for controlling and preventing vector-borne diseases.anaplasma phagocytophilum is an obligate intracellular path- ogen transmitted by i. scapularis.

we recently demonstrated that the i. scapularis an- tifreeze glycoprotein iafgp inhibits bacterial biofilms 25. in this study we delineate how a. phagocytophilum appropriates iafgp to alter the tick gut microbiota by inhibiting biofilm de- velopment thereby enabling this pathogen to efficiently colonize the tick vector.resultstick microbiota are involved in a. phagocytophilum colonization of the gut.

we previously demon- strated that dysbiosis causes the tick gut microbiota to interact differently with epithelial cells and diminishes the activity of a global transcriptional regulator stat 10. stat controls expression of different downstream target genes involved in immunity and cell repair including peritrophin the major component of the pm 10. interestingly we previously showed that a. phagocytophilum infection of ixodes ticks reduces ex- pression of stat and that colonization is enhanced when stat is silenced 65 this suggests a role for the pm as a contributing factor during a. phagocytophilum infection of the tick.

iafgp a secreted i. scapularis an- tifreeze glycoprotein was recently determined to inhibit bacte- rial biofilm formation 25. the expression of iafgp is induced by cold exposure and a. phagocytophilum infection 26. the qrt pcr demonstrated that iafgp is highly induced in the tick gut by the presence of a. phagocytophilum 26 and silencing iafgp ex- pression by rnai diminishes the a. phagocytophilum burden in tick guts fig.

a representative uninfected clean sample is provided left middle at low magnification 500x to visualize a dissected gut revealing the outside of the gut o epithelial cells lining the gut e and luminal content l scale bar 50 mm.

d-alanine- treated representative sample taken at low magnification 500x is provided to visualize a dissected gut revealing the outside of the gut o epithelial cells lining the gut e and luminal content l. scale bar 50 mm.

these data demonstrate that alterations in peptidoglycan mediated by d-serine incorporation or via iafgp binding inhibit biofilm formation and alter the peptidoglycan in a nonlethal manner allowing for enhanced permeability.discussionphagocytophilum an obligate intracellular pathogen enters its tick host following a blood meal and rapidly penetrates the gut barrier and migrates to salivary glands where it persists 41 42. gut commensal microbes play critical roles in enabling hosts toabraham et al.pnas  published online january 12 2017  e787resist invading bacteria and alterations of the microbial gut community of vectors can influence infection loads with patho- gens 43. in our a. phagocytophilum-i.

similar to the gut microbiota of mammals the microbiota associated with arthropods plays an important role in host de- velopment pathogen resistance nutrition and physiology 69. microbial symbionts can reduce vector competence and specific gut microbiota play a protective role in anopheles mosquitoes against plasmodium colonization 70-73. although knowledge about the function of microbiota in diverse arthropods is still limited cross-talk between the arthropod its gut microbiota and incoming pathogens is likely to be important 9-11 69. this study demonstrates how a pathogen induces the arthropod to express a protein that directly inhibits bacterial biofilms and that the effects of this protein on the tick microbiota enable the microbe to effectively colonize the vector.

2 i and j. these results demonstrate that a. phagocytophilum infection in- duces via the host changes in the gut barrier.iafgp modulates the gut pm.

cumulatively these results indicate that iafgp or its peptide de- rivative p1 facilitates a. phagocytophilum colonization of the tick gut by indirectly modulating the pm.iafgp alters the tick microbiota and influences the gut barrier.

s7 a-d. vi- sualization of tick gut biofilms by sem showed a severe de- preciation in biofilm-like structures associated fibers and matrix material within d-serine-treated ticks compared with d-alanine- treated ticks fig.

similarities in the relative abundance of enterococci within the tick gut found by microbiome analysis or sem imaging of tick gut biofilms when treated with d-serine to those during a. phagocytophilum infection or p1 injection of tick guts support the mechanistic action of iafgp's peptidoglycan binding activity on modulating the tick microbiota.

