these results suggested that duox could trigger ros production to guard against pathogen invasion.amps expression involved in intestinal innate immunity against pathogenamps are essentially small molecular weight peptides with widetable 1bacterial taxonomic composition of the different samples at the class level.taxonomy g-proteobacteria b-proteobacteria fusobacteria actinobacteria a-proteobacteria d-proteobacteria sphingobacteriia cytophagia chlorobia bacteroidiaabbreviations cnw control group of normal water cahw control group of water containing a. hydrophila ca control group of artemia cni control group of normal zebrafish intestine iah intestine of zebrafish immersed in water containing a. hydrophila.fig.

the abundance of deltaproteobacteria 19 was significantly higher than that in the normal control group 0.3 and .principal coordinate analysis pcoa plot based on unweighted unifrac metrics was performed to detect the relationships of the microbiota in different samples a. it was shown that microbiota in control group of normal zebrafish intestine cni and that in zebrafish intestine challenged by a. hydrophila iah were distributed in different regions.

composition of the five samples in this study cnw control group of normal water cahw control group of water containing a. hydrophila ca control group of artemia cni control group of normal zebrafish intestine iah intestine of zebrafish immersed in water containing a. hydrophila.respectively.

cnw control group of normal water cahw control group of water containing a. hydrophila ca control group of artemia cni control group of normal zebrafish intestine iah intestine of zebrafish immersed in water containing a. hydrophila.ranging activity against bacteria.

cnw control group of normal water cahw control group of water containing a. hydrophila ca control group of artemia cni control group of normal zebrafish intestine iah intestine of zebrafish immersed in water containing a. hydrophila.

however studies that involve challenging the composition of the intestinal microbiota and subsequent compar- isons with normal intestinal microbiota have rarely been reported in zebrafish.the host uses effective mechanisms to maintain microbiota homeostasis which is essential to maintaining good health.

for interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend the reader is referred to the web version of this article.table 2bacterial taxonomic composition changed in intestinal samples at the genus level.abbreviations cni control group of normal zebrafish intestine iah intestine of zebrafish immersed in water containing a. hydrophila.table 3sequences of primers used in this study.primerssequence 50e30cdna synthesissmart ftacggctgcgagaagacgacagaagggoligo anchor rgaccacgcgtatcgatgtcgact16acg16s rdna v4 pcr515fgtgccagcmgccgcgg806rggactachvgggtwtctaatrt-pcrb-actin-fcagatcatgtttgagaccb-actin-rattgccaatggtgatgacduox-rt-fgcctgtttcctaaagtgttduox-rt-rtaactgccgtggactacchepcidin-rt-fcacagccgttcccttcatahepcidin-rt-rgcagtatccgcagcctttalectin-rt-fttctttattggtggctatglectin-rt-ratccgatgtccagttgatdefensin1-rt-fctttgttaccctgtcctcadefensin1-rt-rttgtatgctttaccgatgtdefensin2-rt-fcaaaatacaaagcagatgaadefensin2-rt-rcagaccatcctttgactttdefensin3-rt-fcagccagccaagccaatgdefensin3-rt-rcgagggcagccacgataainduce ill health in the host.

we found that the microbes in the zebrafish intestine iah challenged by a. hydrophila were not clustered in the same branch as that in the normal zebrafish intestine cni b. based on zescores and microbiota composition analysis the abundance of some genera was altered after the a. hydrophila challenge.

in this study we aimed to delineated the zebrafish intestinal microbiota composi- tion and found that a pathogen challenge influenced the abundance of intestinal microbiota and innate immunity.

defensin 5 potently killed bacteria and induced the secretion of interleukin-8 in intestinal epithelial cells but defensin 6 did not alter antibacterial activity in the intestine .in previous reports zebrafish intestinal microbiota composition has rarely been reported.

intestinal content from zebrafish in normal water formed a control group control group of normal zebrafish intestine cni.

bacteria were filtered from the infection water control group of water containing a. hydrophila cahw the control group water control group of normal water cnw.

pcoa analysis showed that the iah and cni groups were distributed in different regions a. this sug- gested that the pathogen a. hydrophila could disrupt the pre- existing intestinal microbiota homeostasis.lactobacillus is a beneficial symbiotic microorganism found in the animal digestive tract .

efull length articlepathogen invasion changes the intestinal microbiota composition and induces innate immune responses in the zebrafish intestinehui-ting yang song-song zou li-juan zhai yao wang fu-miao zhang li-guo an gui-wen yangshandong provincial key laboratory of animal resistance biology college of life sciences shandong normal university jinan 250014 chinaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 21 july 2017 received in revised form 24 september 2017accepted 27 september 2017available online 28 september 2017keywordszebrafishintestinal microbiota innate immunity reactive oxygen species antimicrobial peptidesa b s t r a c t numerous bacteria are harbored in the animal digestive tract and are impacted by several factors.

hydrophila challenge affected the gut microbiota population compositionto study the microbiota in the zebrafish intestine 16s rdna sequencing was performed.

