the segregation between living environments is not due to different variances along the land-use gradient for children of different age levene's test f  0.45 p  0.81 nor differences in sample size x2  3.39 p  0.64.composition of the living environment and age of children clearly influence the composition of skin microbiota.

differences in land-use are best reflected in the microbiota of young children between one to four years of age 2. in contrast there is a slightly weaker signal of the living environment in newborns and in eight-year-old children while no signature of the living envi- ronment is seen in teenagers 2. to quantify the unique and shared contributions of microbiota in predicting subject age and environmental land-use we calculated a partitioning of prediction variance using partial least squares regression pls table s2.

the signal of environmental land-use around homes in skin microbiota is most promi- nent in toddlers 1-4 years of age while its effect is less pronounced in babies less than a year of age and older children already in school 8 years of age.

figure c shows that the inter-individual dissimilarities are significantly smaller between sibling- pairs than in other pairs meaning that children share more of their microbiota with their children than with other children.

the prevalence of sensitization to inhalant allergens was higher in rural than in urban younger children but the difference was only marginally significant 1-4 years old p  0.053. in 8-14 years old children sensitization is more common in urban environments even though this difference is not significant p  0.56. moreover in both young and old children the prevalence of rhinitis symptoms is higher in urban environments t2.

children living in the same household share more of their skin microbiota which can be seen in higher between-sibling community similarity as compared with either pairs of children with same age or any pair of chil- dren mrm p  0.001 3c.

children enrolled were from 2 months to 14 years of age belonging to six dif- ferent age groups t4.

interestingly the skin microbiota of symmetrical sites was more similar in rural children than in urban children and s10 except for 14 year-olds for which the intra-individual variation was higher in rural subjects fig.

while our results corroborate these earlier findings our data also suggests that the amount of within-individual var- iability between arms can depend on the living environment urban children tended to have more dissimilar arms than rural children and s10.

for example urban children are likely to be more frequently engaged in social contacts than rural children diversifying skin microbiota overall.

young contains children from one to four years old and old includes children from eight to fourteen years.

children were recruited either with invitation letters sent to randomly selected guardians altogether 1530 letter sent as low participation rate was expected or through a random sample of schools and child health clinics around 150 children invited.

in total serum samples were obtained from 226 children.parents or guardians of the participating children answered to a questionnaire on internet response rate 97. we collected information about children's allergic symptoms parent's symptoms lifestyle and living environment.

the background and lifestyle of study subjects differs considerably across study areas t3 in cities most children live in apartments while in rural areas 86 of children live in single houses information not provided in 3. smoking is more common among rural parents and high education i.e.

rural children have more contact with natural environments most rural parents report their children to be in regular contact with dirt and visiting often at least once a week in forests.the average number of bacterial sequences in skin microbiota samples was 84 915 ranging from 6462 to 452 900. these sequences clustered to a total of 5885 different otus.

