the accumulation of cu zn and as could thus be a by-product of microbial activity such as a detoxification process or linked to direct uptake by the micro- organisms for assimilatory or dissimilatory purposes.micro-organisms produce diverse metabolic products which can bind andor react with metals alkali earth metals transition metals semimetals and metalloids as well as lanthanides and actinides result- ing in the precipitation of bioinorganic metal complexes harrisson ceri  turner 2007. the particles present near the bottom of the big pond microbialite could be either metal-siderophores complexes carbonates or sulfides which constitute the main bioinorganic metal complexes harrisson et al.

2005 artificial mats have been used in pilot studies for trace metal remediation bender lee  phillips 1995. in addition to binding to eps metals can also adsorb directly to the cell surface possibly to sequester and shed del- eterious metals from the organism's microenvironment douglas  beveridge 1998. during carbonate phase precipitation cations often coprecipitate comans  middelburg 1987 and incorporation of met- als into carbonate minerals is found both in abiotic davis fuller  cook 1987 huerta-diaz  morse 1992 zachara cowan  resch 1991 and biotic elderfield bertram  erez 1996 van der putten dehairs keppens  baeyens 2000 systems.the high microbial biomass intense sulfur cycling and copious eps production all characteristics of microbial mats visscher  van gemerden 1993 desmarais 1995 decho et al.

cyanobacteria near the surface producefigure 7 xrf imaging of the insert from figure 6. xrf maps of fe as mn zn cu and ti highlighting the bimodal distribution of these metals in the bottom section of the microbialite a homogeneous distribution of fe as and zn linked to the passive binding of the metals by the eps at the surface of the mat and a heterogeneous distribution of metals as metal-enriched sulfidescopious amounts of organic carbon that support high metabolic rates of aerobic and anaerobic heterotrophs notably sulfate-reducing bac- teria fig.

by characterizing the micrometer- scale distribution of metals and microbial activities as well as the millimeter-scale distribution and major properties of organic matter and sulfur we were able to discuss based on similar processes in com- parable sedimentary ecosystems which processes control the accu- mulation and distribution of the metals in the different growth phases of a microbialite that aid in understanding early diagenetic processes.

as a consequence a small fraction of the metals near the surface of the big pond microbialite could be bound to avs.accordingly the distribution of the metals and metalloids in the biologically highly active upper centimeters of the microbialite is not controlled by a selective and direct process linked to the metabolicactivities of the microbial communities but by a non-selective and in- direct process.

2015. here we report the microscale depth distribution of metals microbial activity and eps in a lithifying hypersaline microbial mat.

black squared areas are the area mapped by sr-xrf figures 5 and 6thin microbial mats more or less transient at the shoreline of the lake snake-like microbial mats thick flat microbial mats and stromatolitic build-ups in the deepest part of the lake glunk et al.

the distribution of the metals is homogeneous in the organic layers reflecting the passive binding of metals within the mat 2.5 x 106 of pixels pixel size 5 mm2 acquired at the australian synchrotron at 15.53 kev.

indeed a major role was attributed to eps in the accumulation of metals in the upper 10 mm of a non-lithifying mat of guerrero negro baja sur mexico where an unknown process different from co-precipitation with sulfides was invoked for concentrating metals in the mat huerta-diaz et al.

the degradation of the organic matrix is also supportedtop of the microbialiteliving matmetals carbonate grain eps  sheaths offilamentous bacteriabottom of the microbialite1fe1trend of metals correlation of m with fe showing epspassive concentrationtrend of metalsearly diagenesis 1correlation m - fe inherited from the top3 2fediagenetic trend preferential enrichment in fe due to low leaching degreespecific enrichment of m that could reflect biocontrolled enrichmentpyrites - metal-enriched biocontrolled enrichment degraded eps  sheaths of filamentous bacteriadegradation of biofilm matrixrelease of metals and brpyritization and incorporation of metalsinhomogeneous distribution of metalspreservation of biocontrolled metal enrichment  of early diagenesis pervasive diagenesis bioprocessed metal early diagenesis pyritespervasive diagenesis pyrites32trend of metalspreservation of the earlydiagenetic trendhigh m-low fe  bioprocessed carbonateremobilized organic materialfe4 lmetal trendow m-high fe pervasive diagenetic trendfluid migration and remobilization of organic material and metalsprecipitation of pyrites randomly distributed within the structure or concentrated in the remobilized organic layerspreservation of the original early diagenesis trend in well-preserved zonespreservation of metal enrichment associated with metabolism in the same zonesfigure 9 conceptual model of the evolution of the organic mineralogic and metallic fractions through time in a microbialite from an active surface stage through early diagenesis to a fossil state at depthby the relative abundance in br which decreased threefold from the surface to the bottom of the core ts4.

the main correlation of the metals with fe light blue points 1 figure 8 corresponding to a homogeneous distribution light blue points 1 figure 8 is due to a passive concentration by the eps matrix which is partially conserved as the organic matrix has not been completely degraded figure 3. in contrast the minor pattern showing a specific enrichment in fe dark blue points 2 figure 8 with respect to the matrix is linked to a heterogeneous distribution of large nuggets in which all metals are concentrated figures 6-8. this could highlight the diagenetic effect on the metal distribution caused by physicochemical and biological changes e.g.

1990. the fraction of metals that is retained in the organic matrix depends on the specific redox sen- sitivity as well as the mobility in the metal's reduced form lapp  balzer 1993. subsequently the released metals coprecipitate with the hydrogen sulfide 200 mm at 25 cm depth ts1 produced by the sulfidogenic anaerobes at depth fig.

2005 to form pyrite the metals released in the reaction can coprecipitate within the pyrites morse  rickard 2004 rickard  morse 2005. the low degree of fe leaching during early diagenesis widerlund  ingri 1995 zwolsman berger  van eck 1993 its high abundance in the environment and its affinity to sulfide explain the preferential enrichment relative to the other metals measured that was observed in the diagenetically altered microbialite figure 8.  specific distribution of mn zn cu and as abiotic or biologic signaturesin addition to the two main metal distribution patterns linked to pas- sive concentration within the organic matrix trend 1 figure 8 and remobilization and precipitation of sulfides trend 2 figure 8 a third pattern for mn zn cu and as emerges at the bottom of the big pond microbialite in the form of small nuggets.

generally one and rarely two metals are concentrated within these nuggets while showing no specific enrichment of fe compared to the organic matrix trend 3 figure 8. the binding by eps of the metals and the co- precipitation within diagenetic sulfides discussed above could explain the two main trends but another explanation is required for the third trend namely the fact that there is only one metal in addition to fe in these particles.as discussed above sulfides are an important mineralogical phase in the deeper part of the microbialite.

2014. notably as the mi- crobial mat grows upward oxidized trace metals that were trappednear the surface can be solubilized below the o2hs- interface and incorporated in fe sulfides huerta-diaz  morse 1992 morse luther 1999.the active microbial mat community produces an organic matrix extracellular polymeric substances eps decho visscher  reid 2005 which contains charged functional groups e.g.

