because diet appears to drive inter-group differences in the gut microbiota of black howler monkeys  we controlled for social group in our analyses to try to address the potential effect of diet on our results but including diet directly into our analyses might provide stronger results.overall our data suggest that even in arboreal primates that live in small social groups and spend a relatively low propor- tion of their time in physical contact social interactions are associated with variation in gut microbiota composition.

because kinship and social contact can influence the composition of the gut microbiota - these factors must be considered in addition to diet when examining differ- ences in gut microbiota composition among populations of the same host species.for social animals many of the same factors are likely to drive spatial patterns in gut microbiota composition within populations.

specifically for species or individuals within a species that live in larger social groups and spend more time in social contact social interactions should be a stronger factor in determining gut microbiota composition.

non-human primates are a par- ticularly good model due to their complex social systems and a wealth of available behavioral data.in several species of wild non-human primates differences in the gut microbiota have been reported among neighboring social groups  - and recent studies provide impor- tant baseline data describing the role of kinship and social interactions in driving these patterns.

katherine r. amato 1 department of anthropology northwestern university 1810 hinman ave evanston il 60208 usa2 department of anthropology university of texas austin tx usa3 instituto de biologia universidad nacional autonoma de mexico mexico city mexico4 department of anthropology university of illinois urbana il usa5 institute for genomic biology university of illinois urbana il usa6 department of animal sciences university of illinois urbana il usa7 j. craig venter institute rockville md usa8 school of medicine university of california san diego ca usa9 department of anthropology university of colorado boulder co usain small social groups and spend a relatively low propor- tion of their time in physical contact social interactions are associated with variation in gut microbiota composi- tion.

additionally a study of 48 baboons papio cynocephalus found that con- trolling for host kinship baboons that spent the most time grooming during social contact also exhibited more similar gut microbial communities .while grooming is crucial for building and maintaining social relationships in both baboons and chimpanzees  these data suggest it may also be important for shaping the composition of the gut microbiota which in turn can influ- ence host nutrition health and behavior   .

therefore understanding the relationship between social contact and the gut microbiota may contribute to broader theories regarding primate socioecology and the evolution of social behavior.

currently no published study ad- dresses this topic.therefore in an effort to contribute to an understanding of host-gut microbe dynamics across the primate radiation we explore the effect of kinship and social interactions on the gut microbiota of wild black howler monkeys alouatta pigra belonging to five social groups in palenque national park mexico.

none of the microbial genera we selected a priori showed a strong effect of kinship either table .we also found that time spent in social contact 0 m had no relationship with gut microbiota similarity betweenindividuals within a given social group controlling for kin- ship.

diet influ- ences the howler monkey gut microbiota across habitats and seasons and social groups of howler monkeys have distinct gut microbiota compositions that are correlated to diet.

in fact previous work demonstrated that adult female black howler monkeys in this populationpossess a distinct gut microbiota from adult males indepen- dently of diet variation .it is also worth noting that patterns in the relationship be- tween social interaction and the gut microbiota differed be- tween adult female-juvenile dyads and adult male-juvenile dyads.

however since the effect of social interactions on the black howler monkey gut microbiota varied by dyad type and over- all was smaller than that observed for baboons  we pro- pose there exists a spectrum across which sociality impacts the gut microbiota.

elife 2 e00458kinross j nicholson j 2012 gut microbiota dietary and social modulation of gut microbiota in the elderly.

social groups occupying specific home ranges may exhibit distinct gut microbial communities that are asso- ciated with differences in diet kin relationships andor fre- quency of social interactions.

both chimpanzees and baboons are terrestrial catarrhines with complex social structures but it is unclear whether similar gut microbial patterns should be expected across the rest of the order primates especially among primates that utilize distinct habitats or have smaller social groups with fewer inter- individual interactions.

