only appeared in the male adult of the h. flava tick however these isolates were not presented in others tick samples.bandaccessionnearest marchsimilarityin addition in the present study s. simulans were only detected in the egg of the h. flava tick.in conclusion pcr-dgge profiling was used to identify microorganisms associated with h. flava ticks in different de- velopmental stages.

to our knowledge this is the first report on intestinal bacterial flora associated with h. flava ticks in china.keywordshaemaphysalis flava intestinal microbiota dgge chinaintroductionticks are blood-sucking ectoparasites of great medical and veterinary significance that can transmit bacteria proto- zoa fungi and viruses and cause a variety of human and ani- mal diseases worldwide liu et al.

2015. moreover there has been no report of intestinal bacte- rial flora in h. flava ticks using pcr-dgge in china.the objectives of the present study were investigate the bacterial communities in h. flava ticks in different develop- mental stages using pcr-dgge method.

2012.haemaphysalis flava is a species belonging to the family ixodidae which found in a number of countries and regions xu et al.

k. pneumoniae pectobacterium caro-table i. nearest match of 16s rdna gene sequences from intestinal bacterial flora in haemaphysalis flava ticks in genbankdiscussiontick is one of important ectoparasites capable of causing di- rect damage to their hosts and also acts as vectors of relevant infectious agents diuk-wasser et al.

2014 karbowiak et al.

2016 opalinska et al.

2016. there are an estimated about 900 species of ticks belonging to three families argasidae ixodidae and nuttalliellidae dantas-torres et al.

it not only causes lesions der- matitis blood loss weight loss by tick bite but also was considered as a vector of pathogenic microorganisms that may cause significant diseases in animals and humans xu et al.

2015. this ticks associated with pathogens or diseases are still underestimated because of the complex distribution andthe large diversity of tick species in china fang et al.

2015. recent advances in sequencing technologies and bioinfor- matic methods the polymerase chain reaction pcr and de- naturing gradient gel electrophoresis pcr-dgge method has been very popular for bacteria detection in many animals schabereiter-gurtner et al.

2003 kusar et al.

2012 moreno et al.

2006. in spite of their significance as pathogens little information is available about identification of intestinal bac- terial flora in ticks using pcr-dgge schabereiter et al.

2003 van overbeek et al.

