intestinal rehabilitation techniques including specialized nutrition medications and surgical intestinal lengthening procedures have been developed to promote increased intestinal absorption and improve management of generalized protein-energy malnutrition nutrient depletion and fluid losses related to sbs.

we conclude that there may be an etiologic con- nection between sbs and ibd and that this knowledge may impact outcomes and approaches to care.keywords inflammatory bowel disease  longitudinal intestinal lengthening and tailoring procedure bianchi procedure  malabsorption  short bowel syndromeintroductionshort bowel syndrome sbs is a rare but extremely mor- bid disorder in children most often resulting from a neo- natal insult such as necrotizing enterocolitis nec com- plicated gastroschisis intestinal atresia or midgut volvulus.

evaluation for intestinal and liver transplant would be obtained prior to proceeding with any operation given the possibility that intestinal lengthening would not be feasible.discussionto our knowledge this case report represents the first to describe adult diagnosis of ibd in a patient with sbs since birth.

pediatr neonatol 556426-430. doistanger jd oliveira c blackmore c avitzur y wales pw 2013 the impact of multi-disciplinary intestinal rehabilitation programs on the outcome of pediatric patients with intestinal failure a systematic review and meta-analysis.

short of a coordinated transition clinic the authors suggest that it is important for pediatric specialists managing sbs patients to have close relationships with an adult sbs program.

at this point the authors would only recommend immune modulating agents in sbs patients after an exten- sive workup showing pathologic and serologic markers of ibd.considering the complex and evolving field of sbstreatment it is not surprising that studies have shown improved outcomes for patients managed by a multidisci- plinary team .

tedu- glutide is a recombinant analog of human glucagon-like peptide-2 glp-2 which promotes increased intestinal blood flow and the release of intestinal growth factors.

j pediatr 1452157-163. doisquires rh duggan c teitelbaum dh wales pw balint j venick r rhee s sudan d mercer d martinez ja carter ba soden j horslen s rudolph ja kocoshis s superina r lawlor s haller t kurs-lasky m belle sh pediatric intestinal failure c 2012 natural history of pediatric intes- tinal failure initial report from the pediatric intestinal failure consortium.

j pediatr gastroenterol nutr 553272-277. doibianchi a 1980 intestinal loop lengthening--a technique for increasing small intestinal length.

recent evi- dence suggests that sbs and ibd have shared features of mucosal immune dysfunction and altered intestinal micro- biota.

processes which are known to be pre- sent in both sbs and ibd include impaired mucosal bar- rier function and an altered intestinal microbiome.

in our institutions surgeons gastroen- terologists clinical nutrition expert physicians pharma- cists nurses and dietitians work closely with each other for intestinal rehabilitation of these complex patients.

curr gastro- enterol rep 96463-467freeman jj rabah r hirschl rb maspons a meier d teitel- baum dh 2015 anti-tnf-alpha treatment for post-anastomotic ulcers and inflammatory bowel disease with crohn's-like patho- logic changes following intestinal surgery in pediatric patients.

j pediatr surg 152145-151jeppesen pb sanguinetti el buchman a howard l scolapio js ziegler tr gregory j tappenden ka holst j mortensen pb 2005 teduglutide alx-0600 a dipeptidyl peptidase iv resistant glucagon-like peptide 2 analogue improves intestinal function in short bowel syndrome patients.

sbs affects approximately 2 of patients admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit nicu and carries a high mor- tality rate up to 37 in the first 5 years of life  .

