During parenteral nutrition murine models have shown a shift in the micro- biome from a composition of mostly firmacutes to a population that is predominantly Gram-negative proteobacteria These findings have been con- firmed in human studies 2528 Proteobacteria produce lipopolysaccharide LPS which has been previously demonstrated to be associated with liver steatosis portal and intestinal inflammation and liver fibrosis 25After weaning from parenteral nutrition Lactobacillus has been shown to dominate the microbiota in patients with SBS 30 Lactoba- cillus overgrowth is associated with D-lactic acidosis and liver steatosis due to excessive bile acid decon- jugation 25 Using next-generation sequencing Engstrand Lilja et al.

Even years after weaning from parenteral nutrition liver steatosis and fibrosis have been documented to persist in some patients There- fore along with parenteral nutrition alterations in the intestinal function likely play an important role in the pathogenesis of IFALD.Lack of enteral intakeExperimental models have shown that lack of enteral feeding has significant metabolic and endo- crine consequences.

In a 24-week phase III placebo-controlled trial Teduglutide was found to reduce parenteral nutrition requirements in patients with SBS Most recently in a 2-year open-label extension of this trial Teduglutide was found to be well tolerated long term with continued decreases in parenteral nutrition requirements and advancements in enteral nutrition feeding 91 Further studies on this peptide in the pediatric population of small bowel resection SBR patients are therefore warranted.CONCLUSIONIFALD can be divided into three categories - early established and late.

Late IFALD is characterized by liver function tests more than three times the normal range and clinical signs of end-stage liver disease DIAGNOSTIC ASSESSMENTAs IFALD can mimic other hepatic diseases a diag- nostic work-up should be performed to exclude other diagnoses including biliary atresia and other surgically correctable forms of jaundice infectious hepatotoxic medications and metabolic syn- dromes.

Patients with suspected intestinal failure should therefore have baseline and serial liver function tests and serum alpha-fetoprotein as well as serial liver ultrasounds to evaluate for portal hypertension.

The University of Pittsburg1040-8703 Copyright c 2017 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved.367Copyright c 2017 Wolters Kluwer Health Inc. All rights reserved.Surgeryreported 1-year and 5-year survival rates of 92 and 70 respectively in combined intestine and liver allografts pretreated with rabbit antithymocyte globulin or alemtuzumab Therefore though it is still associated with significant morbidity and mortality such as infection and chronic rejection transplantation remains a promising option for patients with end-stage liver disease.NOVEL THERAPIESNovel approaches combine traditional techniques with small intestinal tissue engineering to increase the intestinal mucosal surface area.

Utility of aminotransferaseplatelet  ratio index to predict liver fibrosis in intestinal failure-associated liver disease in pediatric patients.

As there is a multifactorial cause of this process attributable to both parenteral nutrition and compromised bowel function intestinal failure- associated liver disease IFALD has become the preferred terminology 4 IFALD is the greatest contributor to morbidity and mortality in infants and children with intestinal failure and the leading indication for intestinal transplantation DEFINITIONGenerally cholestasis is defined as conjugated bilir- ubin at least 2 mgdl in association with parenteralaDivision of Pediatric Surgery St. Louis Children's Hospital and bDepartment of Surgery Washington University School of Medicine St. Louis Missouri USACorrespondence to Brad W. Warner MD Division of Pediatric Surgery St. Louis Children's Hospital One Children's Place Suite 5s40 St. Louis MO 63110 USA.

25demonstrated that the change in intestinal microbiota was associated with liver steatosis in intestinal failure and better predicted steatosis than duration of parenteral nutrition or length of the remaining intestine.Previously the most common methods to assess bacterial overgrowth were hydrogen breath tests or cultures derived from endoscopic-guided duodenal aspirates.

Other factors contributing to liver disease specifically related to parenteral nutrition include lipid emulsions carbohydrate excess and micronu- trient toxicity.LIPIDSIntravenous lipid emulsion ILE made from soy- bean oil was developed in the 1960s and continues to be the most commonly used in the United States.

