this includes genetic screening for the predisposition to nafld in pediatric populations at risk.the development of noninvasive methods to diagnose nafld at an early age monitor liver condition and todifferentiate those with advance disease or at risk of de- veloping advanced disease from those who have simple steatosis.the study of the pnpla3 function and the interaction of dietary sugar and the gut microbiome.given the success of bariatric surgery in adolescents and adults as a treatment for metabolic diseases such as nash and diabetes a trial to establish the benefits of gastric bypass in pediatric patients who are genetically at high risk for nafld disease progression should be consid- ered.

20115361883-94.sookoian s castano go burgueno al et al.

20145164.franz mj vanwormer jj crain al et al.

pediatric nonalcoholic fatty liver disease the rise of a lethal disease among mexican american hispanic childrenmonica m. betancourt-garcia1  armando arguelles 1  jorge montes1 ambrosio hernandez1  manish singh1  r. armour forse1published online 7 november 2016 springer sciencebusiness media new york 2016abstract hispanic children of mexican origin have a high incidence of nafld.

hepatic steatosisintroductionthree decades ago nonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld was considered a disease of adults.

potential treatments that may thwart the progression of nafld will be examined and should be considered for early intervention including bariatric surgery.nafld pathogenesisby definition nafld is a liver disease characterized by ex- cessive fat accumulation in the form of triglycerides in more than 5 of hepatocytes that is not caused by alcohol intake drugs toxins infectious diseases or any other specific etio- logic factors that induce liver disease .originally nafld development and progression was de- scribed by a two-hit theory.

due to its invasive nature high cost and limited number of pediatric hepatologists liver biopsies are not recommended unless advanced liver disease is clinically suspected -.measuring inflammation and noninvasive markers such as caspase-generated ck18 fragments through m65 elisa have been recognized as the most promising tests for detecting the presence of an advanced disease and a safer alternative to a liver biopsy .

schwimmer also observed that prevalence and severity of the disease varied among ethnicities with the highest prevalence in hispanic children followed by caucasians and then african americans .all subsequent us multiethnic population-based studies on pediatric nafld confirmed that hispanics have the highest prevalence of nafld and present with a more aggressive pattern of the disease   .

in addition data from a longitudinal studyon rygb outcomes indicates that post-rygb surgery weight regain is not associated with a reduction in either hepatic or peripheral insulin sensitivity factors related to nash risk .conclusionit is generally recognized in scientific research that nonalco- holic fatty liver disease is today's most common and leading cause of liver disease in children and adolescents worldwide.

schwimmer et al.

these observations are supported by research conducted by davis et al.

a study done by goffredo et al.

in a study done by gordon-larson et al.

the necessary study needs to be orga- nized to allow this to occur.compliance with ethical standardsconflict of interest the authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.informed consent as a review article informed consent does not apply.ethical approval this article does not contain any studies with human participants or animals performed by any authors.referencesfleischman mw budoff m zeb i et al.

201465274-83.loomba r sirlin cb schwimmer jb et al.

