Meanwhile the corresponding IR of the efflu- ent from BAF 2 was about 49 which was lower than that from BAF 1 suggesting that the yeast LH-F1 was able to degrade or even mineralize ARB Tan et al.

Three col- umns named as 1 2 and 3 were inoculated with AS 6 g l-1 dry weight at 105 degC the yeast LH-F1 4 g l-1 wet weight at 10000xg for 10 min and both of them 3 g l-1 AS and 2 g l-1 the yeast LH-F1 respectively.

They were acclimatized with simulated ARB wastewater which contains glucose 2.0 g l-1 NH42SO4 0.5 g l-1 K2HPO40.5 g l-1 MgSO47H2O 0.25 g l-1 and ARB 10 mg l-1for formation of biofilm for 50 days.

3 The acute toxicity of the original influent and effluent sam- ples at the ends of phases a III and b IV assessed by Microtox bioas- says using the luminescent bacteria Vibrio fischeri NRRL B-11177.70 IR  100 high toxicity 20 IR  70 moderate toxicity 10 IR  20 ow toxicityprobably generated and accumulated in BAF 1 Sarioglu et al.

It was obvious that the effluent of BAF 3 also exhibited low toxicity against V. fischeri.Microbial community analysis by Miseq sequencingThe efficiency of bioaugmentation-based wastewater treat- ments depends on the type of microorganisms selected and their subsequent survival and degradation activity dur- ing the treatment process Qu et al.

In comparison the dominance of Acinetobacter in BAF 3 suggested that it might be versatile in degrading recalcitrant compounds according to corresponding reports Kowalczyk et al.

Meanwhile microbes in three BAFs were gathered at the end of phases III and IV for analyzing the dynamics of microbial including bacterial and fungal consortiums.Analytical methodsMethods of ARB concentration analysis and decoloriza- tion percentage calculation refer to the description by Tan et al.

1 2 and 3 represent the numbers of BAFsexperiments its efficiency in BAFs was relatively low probably due to the non-optimal environmental conditions Tan et al.

In comparison Proteobacteria including Alphaproteobacte- ria Betaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria and Fir- micutes were dominant phyla in three BAFs which were expected due to their common occurrence in the micro- bial communities for treating azo dyes Miran et al.

Further analysis results at genus level showed that some bacterial genera which were not detectedin AS including Citrobacter Enterobacter and Acineto- bacter became dominant ones in three BAFs after treat- ing ARB suggesting that bacterial community structures remarkably shifted when operation conditions changed Qu et al.

