green bars represent control offspring and red bars represent bpa-exposed offspring.in bpa-exposed offspring compared to control offspring.

research articlehost-microbe biologyperinatal bisphenol a exposure induces chronic inflammation in rabbit offspring via modulation of gut bacteria and their metaboliteslavanya reddivaria d. n. rao veeramachanenib william a. waltersc catherine lozuponed jennifer palmerb m. k. kurundu hewagee rohil bhatnagara amnon amirf mary j. kennettg rob knightfh jairam k. p. vanamalaeijdepartment of plant science the pennsylvania state university university park pennsylvania usaa animal reproduction and biotechnology laboratory department of biomedical sciences colorado state university fort collins colorado usab max planck institute for developmental biology tubingen germanyc department of medicine university of colorado anschutz medical campus aurora colorado usad department of food science the pennsylvania state university university park pennsylvania usae departments of pediatrics and computer science and engineering university of california san diego la jolla california usaf department of veterinary and biomedical sciences the pennsylvania state university university park pennsylvania usag center for microbiome innovation university of california san diego la jolla california usah the penn state hershey cancer institute hershey pennsylvania usai center for molecular immunology and infectious diseases the pennsylvania state university university park pennsylvania usajabstract bisphenol a bpa accumulates in the maturing gut and liver in utero and is known to alter gut bacterial profiles in offspring.

finally we tested the hypoth- esis that supplementation of scfa may ameliorate bpa-induced increases in colonic cell permeability in vitro.resultsto evaluate the effects of perinatal bpa exposure on the offspring colon and liver pregnant rabbits received 200 ug of bpakg of body weightday orally from gestation day 15 through postnatal day 7. bpa exposure did not significantly influence litter size survival birth weight or sex ratio see table s1 in the supplemental material.effects of bpa exposure on the inflammatory response in the rabbit offspring.

b to d beta diversity plots for colon b cecum c and feces d with samples clustering according to the unweighted unifrac metric.unifrac  distances and were significantly different between bpa-exposed offspring and control offspring for cecum and feces permutational multivariate analysis of variance permanova of unweighted unifrac distances p values were 0.12 0.001 and0.01 for colon cecum and feces respectively.

were higher in the colonic digesta of control offspring than in that of bpa-treated offspring  and .

lda scores that were elevated in control dams or offspring are shown in green whereas lda scores that were greater in bpa-treated dams or offspring are shown in red.

in the colon only histidine levels were significantly reduced in the control offspring compared to the bpa-exposed offspring.

the liver metabolites whose levels were significantly different after adjusting for multiple testing fdr were reduced in bpa- exposed offspring compared to control offspring table s2.

ribulose-5-phosphate dihydroxy-acetone- phosphate and d-glyceraldehdye-3-phosphate levels showed a 2-fold difference between control offspring and bpa-exposed offspring.

a recent study  reported significant differences in fecal microbial composition between offspring of unexposed mice and offspring with parental exposure to bpa.

the genera methanobrevibacter in the colon and dorea in the cecum showed significance at p values of 0.1 after bonferroni correction in comparisons between bpa-exposed offspring and control offspring .

however bpa exposure in rats caused a reduction in colonic paracellular permeability instead of an increase in female offspring but not in male offspring.

we hypothesized that peri- natal bpa exposure-induced intestinal and liver inflammation in offspring is due to alterations in the microbiome and colonic metabolome.

in this report we show how perinatal bpa exposure in rabbits alters gut microbiota and their metabolite pro- files which leads to colonic and liver inflammation as well as to increased gut permeability as measured by elevated serum lipopolysaccharide lps levels in the offspring.

bpa exposure showed a positive association with proinflammatory responses in the colon of female but not male offspring .

