there are three species within the perna genus that are dispersed across the globe the p. viridis species asian green mussel in indo-pacific region the p. perna brown or rock mussel species from atlantic regions and the p. canaliculus species limited to the marine regions of new zealand which has been sustainably farmed for commercial purposes since the early 1970s .

current studies investigating the therapeutic efficacy of p. canaliculus have only produced low-level evidence however an indication remains that green-lipped mussels glms have therapeutic potential as adjunctive agents for rheumatoid arthritis ra  osteoarthritis oa  asthma  and intestinal complaints .clinical and experimental data has shown various mussel species possess anti-oxidant anti-hypertensive anti-bacterial anti-thrombin and anti-coagulant properties derived from their proteins peptides and amino-acid constituents.pernin remains the only bioactive protein that has been found in the cell-free hemolymph of the p. canaliculus extract.

it has been suggested that p. canaliculus contains active inhibitors of prostaglandins as demonstrated by an increase in the gestation period of rats following the administration of p. canaliculus extract powder .

studies conducted recently in humans reported that the administration of a whole p. canaliculus extract may support intestinal function and potentially protect the intestinal tract when delivered in conjunction with analgesic and anti-inflammatory medications in oa patients .approximately 70 of an extract of whole mussel p. canaliculus is protein.

clinical data from oa patients treated with a p. canaliculus containing glm extract reported significant improvement in gsrs scores supporting the hypothesis that the metabolism of p. canaliculus containing glm compounds may generate the production of scfa metabolites.

the study showed that bacteroides a genus of gram-negative obligate anaerobic bacteria as a group were increased at the end of the p. canaliculus supplementation period indicating that p. canaliculus possibly increased scfa-producing intestinal bacteria.

el aidy s. crispie f. o'sullivan o. cotter p. stanton c. kelly p. cryan j.f.

2016 2 17. janczyk w. socha p. lebensztejn d. wierzbicka a. mazur a. neuhoff-murawska j. matusik p. omega-3 fatty acids for treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease design and rationale of randomized controlled trial.

whilst the metabolism of p. canaliculus by commensal bacteria is yet to be explored extensively in vitro data has demonstrated their capacity to ferment and metabolize a common anti-arthritic medication d-glucosamine -.

p. canaliculus has been demonstrated to indirectly target the intestinal microbiota and in part influence intestinal bacterial biodiversity growth and metabolic activity .intestinal bacterial cohortthe genera of bacteria that are consistently reported as key for producing and maintaining health-promoting activities in the prebiotic literature are largely limited to the lactobacillus and bifidobacterium genera.

a number of bioactive compounds from the mytilus and perna genuses are found within the p. canaliculus species extract which is emerging as the most carefully and intensely investigated compound for medicinal and therapeutic effects.p.

an extremely rare adverse effect of non-granulomatous cholestatic hepatitis was associated with p. canaliculus extract consumption  with one of the two patients who reported this complication having a pre-existing hepatic disorder .mechanism of intestinal actionsthe anti-inflammatory effect of perna has been attributed to a number of factors one of which being its ability to reduce the biosynthesis of pro-inflammatory prostaglandins .

reviews have suggested that the intestinal microbiota may be involved in the down-regulation of intestinal mucosal inflammation and as such the administration of compounds like p. canaliculus to manage symptoms of inflammatory conditions like oa and potentially ra are viable adjunctive therapies .immunomodulationearly studies with murinae models have shown that the lipid-rich fraction of the glm exhibits synergistic anti-inflammatory properties that are characteristic of immunomodulation when administered in combination with oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs nsaids and analgesic medications including prednisone pentoxifylline or meloxicam .

p. canaliculus extract powder has shown synergistic and anti-inflammatory activity when administered in combination with other nsaids.

experimental data has demonstrated that the stabilized whole extract powder of p. canaliculus decreases the severity and episodes of intestinal barrier damage in rat models .

