indeed recent studies have shown that infants colonized with b. infantis at levels comparable to those of the infants supplemented with b. infantis evc001 have im- proved health outcomes compared to infants with dysbiotic gut microbiomes  and that high levels of b. infantis are typical for healthy infants .

candidate genes were screened against b. infantis evc001 atcc sd7035 and blon0915 was found to be present in both the type strain of b. infantis and evc001 atcc sd7035 and other closely related strains of b. infantis but not among other bifidobacterium species.

we also hypothesized that providing this strain would increase fecal short-chain fatty acids and decrease fecal ph fecal hmo content and fecal endotoxin concentrations.resultschanges in the fecal microbiome.

infantis evc001 maintained significantly higher abundances of fecal b. infantis for 30 days after supplementation compared to control infants based on 16s rrna sequencing and species-specific qpcr.changes in fecal markers of dysbiosis.

infants fed b. infantis evc001 had significantly greater total fecal organic acids than con infants at day 29 71.41 -20.75 umolg versus 45.00 - 14.73 umolg adjusted p  0.001 multiple t test with holm-sidak correction.to test whether fecal ph changed in tandem with increased lactate and acetate concentrations the ph of the fecal samples at postnatal day 21 from 18 randomly chosen con infants was measured.

despite exclusive breastfeeding in this study many con infants remained uncolo- nized by bifidobacterium throughout the initial 60-day study period and those that were colonized by this genus harbored species that were distinct from b. infantis the predominant species found in many breastfed infants in resource-poor coun- tries  .the most striking finding of this study was the stable colonization of b. infantis welltable 4 infant fecal lactate and short-chain fatty acid profiles at baseline postnatal day6 and postnatal day 29acomparisons between samples collected at day 29 were made via multiple t tests with the holm-sidak correction.beyond the supplementation period.

fecal milk oligosaccha- rides were significantly lower in b. infantis evc001-fed infants demonstrating higher consumption of human milk oligosaccharides by b. infantis evc001.

even though b. infantis evc001 was not provided after day 28 fecal bifidobacteria which we confirmed as b. infantis evc001 based on quantitative pcr remained the dominant organism in these infants at day 60 .

colonization by b. infantis evc001 re- sulted in significant changes to fecal microbiome composition and was associated with improvements in fecal biochemistry.

mean relative abundances of the dominant taxonomic families - sd are shown in for each day each delivery mode and each treatment group.to examine the effect of feeding b. infantis evc001 on the fecal microbiome of cs infants and whether any changes resolved the effect of cs on the infant fecal microbiome the weighted unifrac distances were compared between delivery modes cs versus dv in probiotic-supplemented infants.

b. infantis-fed infants had significantly higher populations of fecal bifidobacte- riaceae in particular b. infantis while evc001 was fed and this difference persisted more than 30 days after evc001 supplementation ceased.

points are colored with respect to the delivery mode associated with their being differentially abundant yellow dv purple cs.species-specific quantitative pcr qpcr measurement showed significantly higher mean levels of b. infantis in supplemented infants 10.81 log10 cells per g of feces standard deviation or sd 11.13. the number of cells reported as the log number of cells per gram of feces at day 10 postnatal in the evc001 treatment group  was higher than in con infants whose mean levels of b. infantis fell below the limit of detection throughout the 21-day feeding period days 7 to 28 postnatal and through 60 days postnatal .

mothers received either lactation support or lactation support and 1.8 x 1010 cfu of activated b. infantis evc001 atcc sd-7035 manufactured by evolve biosystems inc. to feed their infants daily from postnatal day 7 to day 28. this strain of b. infantis was selected for its capacity to digest the full breadth of hmos .

infantis b. infantis would lead to persistent colonization of the probiotic organism in breastfed infants.

one group of mothers fed b. infantis evc001 to their infants from day 7 to day 28 of life n  34 and the second group did not administer any probiotic n  32. fecal samples were collected during the first 60 postnatal days in both groups.

