mean ratios of bacterial growth of rm samples to mom d-f. the ratio was calculated for each rm sample by dividing the cfuml in each rm sample to its corresponding mom sample at t0 mom  1. the ratios were calculated at each time point in d msa e mrs and f nutrient media.0.5 at 4 h of incubation and then at 8 h of incubation reached a ratio  1 exceeding the mom bacterial load .since microbial growth may result in changes in ph as well as physical changes to the milk the overall appearance i.e.

in dbm the most abundant genera were acinetobacter unclassified enterobacteriaceae genus and serratia.results of this study suggest that the optimal restoration strategy to reach a microbial content most similar to mom was a mixture of rm-10 incubated for 4 h. using the bacterial load and microbial content of mom at t0 as the target we were able to successfully restore the microbiome in the rm-10 and rm-30 mixtures after 4 h of incubation whereas larger dilutions of rm-1 and rm-5 reached the target level after 8 h. although it did not reach the microbial content of mom rm-10 was able to reach 60 of the bacterial load of mom.

a good correlation was found between the size of the inoculum and the amount of bacterial growth while the initial concentration of bacteria did not affect the outcome.for msa media which targets mostly staphylococcus after 4 h of incubation at 37c 75 of the rm-10 reached a ratio of0.6 compared to the mom original bacterial load while all rm- 30 reached a ratio of 1. for mrs media which targets mostly lactic acid bacteria 33 of the rm-10 reached a ratio of 1 compared to mom while 58 of rm-30 reached the same ratio after 4 h. in nutrient agar which is a general purpose media targeting non-fastidious organisms after 4 h of incubation 42 of samples in rm-10 reached a ratio of 1 compared to mom while 83 reached a ratio of 1 in the rm-30 samples.

luisa de garnica universidad de leon spain juan miguel rodriguezcomplutense university of madridspaincorrespondencejosef neu graciela l. lorca  these authors have contributedequally to this work.specialty sectionthis article was submitted tofood microbiology a section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 21 march 2017accepted 20 july 2017published 03 august 2017citation cacho nt harrison na parker la padgett ka lemas dj marcial ge li n carr le neu j and lorca gl 2017 personalization of the microbiota of donor human milk withthe american academy of pediatrics recommends that extremely preterm infants receive mother's own milk mom when available or pasteurized donor breast milk dbm when mom is unavailable.

using mom at time  0 t0 as the target for the restoration process this level was reached in the 10 rm-10 and 30 rm-30 mixtures after 4 h of incubation at 37c whereas the larger dilutions of 1 rm-1 and 5 rm-5 after 8 h. the diversity indexes were similar between mom and dbm samples however different genera were prevalent in each group.

81470. doi abbreviations dbm donor breast milk mom mother's own milk nicu neonatal intensive care unit rm restored microbiota pasteurized donor milk.university of florida uf health neonatal intensive care unit nicu is to provide premature infants of gestational age less than 30 weeks with dbm if the mom supply is low or not available.numerous components of human milk are thought to be beneficial for the infant  .

we hypothesized that fresh mom can be mixedtable 1  demographics of mothers and infants.with dbm to improve the quality of dbm by cultivating the beneficial milk microbiome to reflect mom.

the change in diversity of mom and rm-10 or rm-30 suggests the differential growth of few bacterial species.the analysis of the bacterial richness of the rm allowed for the assessment of the expanding microbiome to determine if the rm samples over time become similar to mom at t0.

in most cases the dbm samples remained clustered together such as mom sample 4 5 6 7 8 10 11 and 12 shown as circles in  whereas in dbm used for mom samples 2 and 9 has a small difference in bacterial richness over time.

in some mothers it was observed that the different rm samples migrated toward mom at t0 suggesting that the rm sample became more similar to mom at t0 .

these results suggest that each mom has a unique diverse bacterial load having no core microbes.discussionin this work we show that by using a small amount of mom to inoculate pasteurized dbm it is possible to reestablish the potentially beneficial naturally occurring microbes.

feeding preterm infants mom has been shown to decrease nec and sepsis with even small amounts of mom providing some protection             .

in contrast the mom in this study was obtained from mothers of preterm hospitalized infants who because of their infant's prematurity were unable to breastfeed and were thus dependent on mechanical breast milk expression to obtain milk for their infants.we found that halomonas was present in greater abundance than staphylococcus in comparison with other studies in mom.

overall our results demonstrate that inoculation with an amount of mom as small as 1 can populate dbm with the mother's potentially beneficial bacteria.the alpha diversity of mom and the larger dilutions of rm rm-10 and rm-30 decreased as incubation time increased.

the goal of this study was to determine whether dbm could be inoculated with mom from mothers of preterm infants to restore the live microbiota rm.

