this evidence also includes information from population-based epidemiologic studies that have identified food patterns nutrient intakes and life- styles associated with health promotion or with increased risk or progression of ncds 4 16. moreover additional insights have been generated by some randomized clinical trials rcts and innovative new study designs such as mendelian randomization and environment-wide associa- tion studies.to evaluate the evidence useful for both population and individual decisions requires that 3 steps be taken into consideration 1 what are the uncertainty limits of the available evidence 2 how can we improve credibility by reducing uncertainty and variability and 3 does the in- creased evidence credibility lead to improved usefulness in dietary guidance 17 interestingly although 96 of thebiomedical literature claims significant positive results the validity of these claims is often questionable 18. the reasons are multiple and generally well known al- though not widely appreciated or acknowledged.

key criteria include the following how big is the problem locally how direct is the evidence how does it impact on resources equity ac- ceptability and feasibility 54 55.in the grade system randomized trials are initially graded as high-quality evidence but their grade can be rated down to moderate or lowvery low based on limitations in 5 categories risk of bias inconsistency indirectness impreci- sion and publication bias 54 56. on the other hand ob- servational studies are initially graded as low-quality evidence but can be rated up to a higher grade primarily on the basis of large effect sizes.

institute of medicine recommendations 58. several authoritative international organizations who institute of medicine the guideline international network and the grade working group agree on the key principles for the development of high-quality guidelines 59. interna- tional standards exist that will also ensure trustworthiness for nutritional guidelines based on progression to higher levels as bias in the quality of evidence declines 60.recommendations should be based on an explicit and trans- parent process that maximizes the use of the highest-quality graded evidence minimizes distortions biases and conflicts of interest provides a clear explanation of the logical relations between alternative care options and health outcomes and pro- vides ratings of both the quality of evidence and the strength of recommendations 61. more realistically to provide high- quality systematic reviews of today's expansive literature will re- quire more than the voluntary spare time of already-pressed scientists.

the agenda for the future is expected to support available methodology in nutrition research to personalize guideline recommendations properly grading the quality of the available evidence promoting adherence to the well- established evidence hierarchy in nutrition and enhancing strategies for appropriate vetting and transparent reporting that will solidify the recommendations for health promotion.

moving forward requires adherence to well-established principles of evidence evaluation as well as identification of effective tools to obtain better quality evidence.

real-life studies should also be en- couraged to overcome the possible bias between populationnutritional guidelines for sustainable health policies 533groups selected in trials and actual population composition and profile.therefore the agenda for the development of nutritional guidelines should advance through evaluation of methodol- ogy in nutrition research evidence hierarchy in nutrition and strategies for appropriate vetting and reporting aimed at empowering recommendations including specific impli- cations for the future such as personalized nutrition in health promotion text box 1.current and developing status of knowledgemethodology in nutrition researchhistorically nutritional guidelines have been based on all the evidence available including not only human clinical studies but also data available from experimental animal work and physiological studies.

nonetheless limitations of this kind do not serve as reasons to elevate the level of evidence obtained but rather to limit the cer- tainty of conclusions drawn from the evidence available.

moreover within this context properly grading the caliber of available evidence is pivotal because trustworthy guide- lines must systematically weigh both the amount of evidence and its quality.

moreover recommendations should not be based on indirect evidence such as a prediction from nutrient composition listed in the label but on solid scientific evidence accumu- lated from actual subject responses to the particular foods themselves 48. these refinements can lead to improvement in dietary approaches based on traditional or regional habits that have already been validated and translated into recommendations for health promotion e.g.

the future agenda should advance through evaluation of newly available methodology in nutrition research to personalize guideline recommendations properly grade the evidence quality adhere to evidence hierarchy in nutrition and en- hance strategies for appropriate vetting and transparent reporting to solidify the recommendations for health pro- motion.

in making deci- sions regarding direction and strength of recommendations guideline panels should consider the totality of evidence and the magnitude of the desirable and undesirable health effects the domains of evidence certainty or uncertainty both with respect to the desired goals and potential undesir- able effects.

dietary assessment methods and their validation or funding bias for assessing the meta- evidence quality of the evidence of the meta-analyses need to be developed.

78. for optimal implementation this approach is best conducted with interaction with the grade working group which we encourage and welcome strongly.implications for the futurenovel approaches may lead to the development of nutri- tional exercise and pharmacological interventions targeting the metabolic and molecular causes of human ageing and health promotion inhibiting pro-aging pathways that con- trol the accumulation of molecular damage in multiple tis- sues or minimizing the risks of diseases that contribute to or accelerate those pathways 48 79. accurate predictions of the individual metabolic response integrating different approaches may lead to personalized nutrition able to com- bine health promotion and the possible use of locally avail- able foods 48. the transfer of this information to novel nutritional guidelines to improve the effectiveness of current generalized guidelines however still appears complex.although most guidelines have historically focused on the essential nutrient components of foods future nu- tritional recommendations must evaluate evidence derived from ingestion of whole foods or diets.a crucial issue is the communication of the fundamental nutritional information in the current electronic mediaenvironment where traditional factual evidence verification is often lacking.

moving forward requires adherence to well-established prin- ciples of evidence evaluation and the identification of effective tools to obtain better-quality evidence.

improving the use of re- search evidence in guideline development 9. grading evidence and recommendations.

