Whereas increase of diversity in developed stable gut systems is assumed to be associated with improved resilience of that system.When comparing the microbiota composition of the antibiotic treated and control chickens a high overlap was observed for both day 5 and 14.. We expected long-lasting changes based upon previous findings   - however in this experiment the gut microbiota ecosystem apparently developed towards a steady state in 3 days after the antibiotic treatment.The impact of the antibiotic treatment could be ob- served on the bacterial family level where minor changes in average relative contribution ARC oc- curred at day 5 and major changes on day 14.

For the long term this strategy may result in a reduced immune competence of the birds.When taken both the microbiota and transcriptomics data together the presented data suggest that an anti- biotic treatment during early life only causes limited changes in microbiota diversity andor composition.

BMC Genomics 2017 18241DOI 10.1186s12864-017-3625-6Perturbation of microbiota in one-day old broiler chickens with antibiotic for 24 hours negatively affects intestinal immune developmentDirkjan Schokker1  Alfons J. M. Jansman1 Gosse Veninga2 Naomi de Bruin3 Stephanie A. Vastenhouw4 Freddy M. de Bree4 Alex Bossers4 Johanna M. J. Rebel1 and Mari A. Smits14BackgroundNutrient intake and immune homeostasis are important aspects for chicken health.

However little attention was given so far to the role of microbiota for healthy broilers .

The colonization of the gut by microbiota in young animals occurs simul- taneously with the development of the gut tissues -.

Later in life interactions between microbiota and mucosal host cells influence the functioning of the gut system.

Dietary interventions at young age such as the usage of prestarter feeds prebiotics pro- biotics and antibiotics are regarded to affect the crosstalk between microbiota and host mucosal cells in the intes- tinal tract which may result in a change of immune devel- opment -.

Based on spatio-temporal gene expression profiles the following sequential order for immune related processes have been reported 1 innate development and influx of immune cells 2 immune differentiation and specialization and 3 maturation and immune regulation .For pigs it has already been shown that administration of antibiotics during early life day 4 or day 28 of age leads to altered composition and diversity of microbiota in the gut These perturbations also affected the expression of numerous immune related genes in the gut mucosal tissue for a longer period of time up till56 days after treatment.

However in this study we used healthy animals and therefore we administered the amoxicillin only once in order to perturb the intestinal microbiome during early-life.The objective of this study was to investigate the impact of a short-term 24 h perturbation of the normal early life microbial colonization of the gut of broiler chickens with an oral dose of amoxicillin on the diversity and compos- ition of the intestinal microbiota over a period of 2 weeks.

To find out whether the microbiota and host gene expression were altered by the antibiotic treatment we collected jejunal samples at three time-points day 1 after hatch prior to antibiotic adminis- tration day 5 and day 14.

