the filtrate was lyophilized and dissolved in 25 ul of water containing reference compounds 200 um each of 3-aminopyrrolidine and trimesatetof-msalcohols and polyols amines azoles azolidinesbenzene and substituted derivates benzenoids carbohydrates and carbohydrate conjugates carboxylic acids and derivates diazines fatty acyls hydroxyl acids and derivatives imidazopyrimidines keto acids and derivatives lipids and lipid-like molecules nucleosides nucleotides and analogues organic acids and derivatives organic carbonic acids and derivatives organic nitrogen compounds organic oxygen compounds organic sulfonic acids and derivatives organoheterocyclic compounds organonitrogen compounds organooxygen compounds phenylpropanoic acids phenylpropanoids and polyketides pyridines and derivatives pyrimidine nucleosides steroids and steroid derivativestof-mscarboxylic acids and derivatives lipids and lipid-likemolecules organic acids and derivatives organic carbonic acids and derivatives organic sulfonic acids and derivatives5051continuedtable 2. continuedfaecal sample processingce detectorbiochemical category based on hmdb classreferencefaecal samples 0.4 g were resuspended in 1.2 ml of h2o 13 wv faeces to h2o and vortexed 10 s. then put through ice water bath and sonification for 120 s 15 w. afterwards the samples were centrifuged 2000 g 4degc 2 min to remove faecal debris.

rep. 2012 2 233.nagao-kitamoto h. shreiner a. b. gillilland m. g. ki- tamoto s. ishii c. hirayama a. kuffa p. el-zaataripe' rez-cobas a. e. gosalbes m. j. friedrichs a. knecht h. artacho a. eismann k. otto w. rojo d. bargiela r. von bergen m. neulinger s. c. da umer c. heinsen f. a. latorre a. barbas c. seifert j. dos santos v. m. ott s. j. ferrer m. moya a. gut 2013 62 1591-1601.moen a. e. tannaes t. m. vatn s. ricanek p. vatn m. h. jahnsen j. consortium i.-c. bmc res.

disease dependent so that a bacterium can produce different metabolites under differ- ent circumstances 6.it is also speculated that around 40 of the surround-ing metabolites in human body are produced by the gut microbiota 6. therefore metabolites can be used not only as a measurement of the activity level of the microbiota but also as a measure of health status as metabolites pro- duced by intestinal microbiota positively influence gut-brain communication 23 and help maintain and repair the largeintestine 24. for example the microbial production of short- chain fatty acids such as butyrate and propionate has shown to have a crucial role in controlling intestinal inflammation 25 and cancer cell proliferation 26. several phytochemicals glu- cosinolates polyphenol aglycones that are formed by mi- crobial transformations have also been shown to have anti- inflammatory effects 25. therefore there is no doubt that the intestinal microbiota exists in a more intimate symbi- otic relationship with their host than other microbe popula- tions 27-31 and can benefit health status.

each sample was reconstituted in 70 ul of milliq water with an internal standard 0.2 mm l-methionine sulphone and 0.1 m formic acidtof-mscarboxylic acids and derivatives imidazopyrimidineslipids and lipid-like molecules nucleosides nucleotides and analogues organic acids and derivates organic oxyen compounds organonitrogen compounds38equal to reference 38tof-msbenzene and substituted derivatives benzenoids carboxylic acids and derivatives diazines fatty acyls hydroxyl acids and derivatives imidazopyrimidines lactams lipids and lipid-like molecules nucleosides nucleotides and analogues organic 13-dipolar compounds organic acids and derivatives organic nitrogen compounds organic oxygen compounds organoheterocyclic compounds organonintrogen compounds organooxygen compounds organosulfur compounds phenylpropanoids and polyketides piperidines pyrimidine nucleosides quinolones and derivativesequal to reference 38tof-msbenzene and substituted derivatives benzenoids organic acids and derivatives organosulfur compounds393figure 2. electropherograms with signals representing a broad set of metabolites as detected by lc-esi-qtof-ms   panel a and ce-esi-tof-ms   panel b. the samples correspond to metabolites extracted from bacterial cells pre-enriched from a person's colon faecal material when confronted to hiv infection 3. x-axis abundance in arbitrary unities.

2017 6 in gut microbiota analysis lc-ms is mainly used to uncover the analysis of different kinds of bile acids and lipids gc-ms and nmr for short chain fatty acids and amino acids and ce-ms for amino acids amines carboxylic acids and secondary metabolites.when a multiplatform analysis is under consideration one of the first questions to answer is whether the analyti- cal platform can introduce bias in the outcomes.

2015 9 2206-2220.rojo d. hevia a. bargiela r. lo' pez p. cuervo a. gonza' lez s. sua' rez a. sa' nchez b. mart'inez-mart'inez m. milani c. ventura m. barbas c. moya a. mar- golles a. ferrer m. sci.

a careful examination of the taxonomic and metabolomics data reported reveals associ- ations between at least 33 bacterial groups inhabiting our body and 52 major metabolites including amino acids sug- ars amino-sugars bile acids cholesterol derivatives xeno- biotics volatile organic compounds fatty acids derivatives eicosanoids lipids indoles peptides nucleotides glucosino- lates and other organic molecules 6. the analysis of the bacteria-metabolite relationship in the context of multiple perturbations revealed that the association between bacteria and metabolites may be factor i.e.

moreover ce is ideal for small and ionizable molecules such as sugars most amino acids amines peptides acyl-carnitines bile acids or- ganic acids hydroxyl acids nucleosides or nucleotides 7.3.1 ce-ms vs. lc-ms size of the metabolomeeach analytical platform covers different types of metabolites due to its technical characteristics.

1 table 1 for studying the microbiota composition meta-taxonomy its genes content metage- nomics and expression metatranscriptomics and the syn- thesis of proteins metaproteomics have been complemented in recent years by the incorporation of metabolomics 6. the qualitative and quantitative determination of metabolites is considered one of the best markers of the global microbial activity as far as it is independent of the microorganisms and enzymes that are involved 4. some comprehensive re- views have been recently published in this regards 6 21. in the particular case of metabolomics research an extensive re- vision of bibliographic records revealed that the content of several hundreds of microbial metabolites are significantly altered while individuals are exposed to multiple perturba- tions commonly encountered by humans 6. the differential in abundance of some of these metabolites correlates with biomarkers of health status.

due to its novelty only 5 of the metabolomics studies investigate gut microbiota using ce even though the metabolites found by ce as being significantly altered in human microbiota represent around 23 of the total number of metabolites identified by metabolomics tools.

2017 7. although the bibliography in the field is still limited only 5 of the metabolomics stud- ies investigating gut microbiota use ce this review stress the importance of using ce as far as around 23 of the to- tal number of metabolites found to be altered in person's colon when confronted to multiple perturbations have been identified by this analytical platform 6.2 strategies for the characterization of the microbiota from taxonomy to metabolomewe are populated by microbes which exploit our resources forming what is commonly known as the microbiota.

at 1 min after extraction the upper aqueous portion without precipitation at the bottom was collected and centrifuged 12 000 g for 10 min at 4degc and 100 ml of supernatant was centrifugally filtered through a 5-kda cutoff filter ultrafree-mctof-msbenzene and substituted derivatives carboxylic acidsand derivatives imidazopyrimidines lipids and lipids-like molecules nucleosides nucleotides and analogues organic acids and derivatives organic oxygen compounds sulfonic acids and derivativestof-mshydroxy acids and derivatives organic acids andderivatives organic nitrogen compounds organoheterocyclic compounds organonitrogen compounds2449continuedtable 2. continuedfaecal sample processingce detectorbiochemical category based on hmdb classreferencefrozen colonic contents approximately 100 mg were diluted five-fold with dulbecco's pbs and extracted three times by intense mixing for 1 min and letting them stand for 5 min on the ice box.

genomics 2001 2 155-168.serrano-villar s. rojo d. mart'inez-mart'inez m. deusch s. va' zquez-castellanos j. f. bargiela r. sainz t. vera m. moreno s. estrada v. gosalbes m. j. latorre a. seifert j. barbas c. moya a. ferrer m. ebiomedicine 2016 8 203-216.moya a. ferrer m. trends microbiol.

2014 7 983-994.va' zquez-castellanos j. f. serrano-villar s. latorre a. artacho a. ferru' s m. l. madrid n. vallejo a. sainzt.

2014 20 16518.29 ding t. schloss p. d. nature 2014 509 357-360.schmidt b. l. kuczynski j. bhattacharya a. huey b. corby p. m. queiroz e. l. nightingale k. kerr a. r. delacure m. d. veeramachaneni r. olshen a. b. al- bertson d. g. teh m.-t. plos one 2014 9 e98741.urbaniak c. cummins j. brackstone m. macklaim j. m. gloor g. b. baban c. k. scott l. o'hanlon d. m. burton j. p. francis k. p. tangney m. reid g. appl.

