these reads as well as publicly available p. destructans and near-relative pseudogymnoascus and geomyces species assemblies were aligned to a reference genome from p. destruc- tans 20631-21 ncbi accession no.

moreover in this analysis isolate jh15cn0111a from china is basal to p. destructans isolates from mongolia europe and north america allowing us to root the p. destructans phylogeny .

we thus limited the sample set to just p. destructans and aligned only reads from this species to identify snp loci shared specifically among p. destructans isolates.

with our current data set the possibility that north american p. destructans was introduced from asia however seems unlikely.we reduced the sample set once again to include only isolates of p. destructans from north america and reanalyzed the alignments for snps.

destructans pp p. pannorum pv p. verrucosus.

the two genetic markers used in this study snps and microsat- ellites provide complementary information regarding the phylogeography of p. de-table 2 annotation of core snp loci from isolates of p. destructans from north americaautr untranslated region of exon.bna not available.structans.

additional analysis of p. destructans mating types in an eastern european population showed a more equal distribution of mating types 58.6 mat1-1 and 41.3 mat1-2 n  41. the absence of the mat1-2 mating type in north american p. destructans is evidence of both asexual reproduction and likely a recent genetic bottleneck.the overrepresentation of widespread and persistent genotypes is also evidence of clonal reproduction as opposed to sexual reproduction  as was indicated by both snp and microsatellite analyses in this study.

average genomic linkage as measured by the standardized index of association indicates that both the european and north american populations of p. destructans are at linkage equilibrium suggesting both populations reproduce primarily as clones.introduction of p. destructans to north america.

hypothe- sized that p. destructans was a novel pathogen introduced to north america from europe based upon evidence that north american little brown bats developed wns when inoculated with a european isolate of p. destructans.

in contrast the high mortality of north american bats infected with p. destructans is consistent with exposure of naive host species to a pathogen preadapted to similar hosts and environmental conditions.our work supports the hypothesis that p. destructans is a novel pathogen recently introduced to north america by demonstrating the relationship of north american isolates of the fungus to a population dominated by european isolates but genetically distant from isolates from asia.

in terms of the natural history of p. destructans it will require extensive sampling in europe to find the population that was introduced to north america.using two high-resolution genetic characters--snps within whole-genome se- quences and microsatellites--we have demonstrated that isolates of p. destructans in north america form a single clade much more closely related to isolates from europe than to genetically distant populations sampled in asia.

future sampling in europe will be needed to more precisely define the origin of p. destructans although the substantial diversity of p. destructans in europe coupled with results from other fungal invasion studies suggests that identi- fication of the exact source population may be challenging.

research articlephylogenetics of a fungal invasion origins and widespread dispersal of white-nose syndromekevin p. dreesab jeffrey m. lorchc sebastien j. puechmailled katy l. pariseab gudrun wibbelte joseph r. hoytf keping sung ariunbold jargalsaikhanhi munkhnast dalannasti j daniel l. lindnerja.

we used single nucleotide polymorphisms snps from whole-genome sequencing and microsatellites to con- struct high-resolution phylogenies of p. destructans.

genetic diversity among isolates of p. destructans from europe was substantially higher than in those from north america.

