Whilst isola- tion of multiple colonies from a single sample is a laborious endeavour these studies reinforce the need to collect multiple isolates from individual samples to maximise capture of population diversity.The megaplasmid pC3 is nonessential to B. ubonensis replicationGene presenceabsence analysis of the 264 B. ubonensis genomes against the MSMB0022 refer- ence showed that 2.78Mbp 39 of the B. ubonensis reference genome was variably present with the remaining 4.41Mbp conserved across these strains.

ubonensis RF23-BP41 does not cause disease in the immunocompetent BALBc mouse modelUnlike other Bcc species or B. pseudomallei B. ubonensis is thought to rarely if ever cause dis- ease in humans  as evidenced by B. ubonensis being the only Bcc species not yet retrieved from cystic fibrosis sputum .

However another possibility is that certain B. ubonensis strains are in fact capable of causing disease with such cases remaining unreported due to insufficient or inaccurate differentiation of B. ubonensis from other Bcc species.To further examine the virulence potential of B. ubonensis we inoculated BALBc mice via sc injection using 1.7x 104 105 and 106 CFU of the Thai strain RF23-BP41.

Antibiotic resistance in B. ubonensis particularly towards drugs used to treat the most severe B. pseudomallei infections has also been poorly characterised.This study examined the population biology of B. ubonensis and includes the first reported isolates from the Caribbean.

In addition it has been reported that the atypical B. pseudomallei O-antigen type B is found in 25 of B. ubonensis strains from Australia  fur- ther complicating the differentiation between these species due to their immunological cross- reactivity.Little is currently known about the population biology and genomics of B. ubonensis although a clearer picture is emerging.

We also explored rates of meropenem resistance in Asian and Australian B. ubonensis strains lipopolysaccharide LPS O-antigen cluster prevalence and diversity and the virulence potential of an Asian B. ubonensis strain in the BALBc mouse model.MethodsEthics statementProcedures and ethics approval for collection of the environmental specimens from which theB.

ubonensis murine challengeThe ability of B. ubonensis to cause disease via the subcutaneous sc route of infection was examined in a murine BALBc model using a Thai environmental isolate RF23-BP41   collected by Northern Arizona University in 2007.

It remains to be determined whether B. ubonensis is found in other melioidosis-endemic regions such as Africa Central America the Indian Ocean islands South America or South Asia.A B. ubonensis phylogeny was reconstructed from 264 genomes derived from Australian Thai PNG and Puerto Rican isolates to determine the existence of a continental phylogeo- graphic signal a phenomenon that has been described in B. pseudomallei   .

Due to limited availability of B. ubonensis from PNG it could not be determined whether other PNG isolates group with A21 although we hypothesise that PNG B. ubonensis strains will be related based on the relatively narrow genetic diversity observed in PNG B. pseudomallei populations  .

Taken together these results demonstrate that like B. pseudomallei B. ubonensis populations exhibit a continental phylogeographic signal although more samples from Asia and PNG would be needed to improve resolution of subclades within Clade I.Comparison of phylogenomic structure and MLSTWe compared B. ubonensis MLST genotypes obtained using both the B. pseudomallei and Bcc MLST schemes with phylogenomic assignment to determine whether the STs reflected isolate relatedness on the genome level  or whether homoplasy was evident among STs as has been observed with certain B. pseudomallei STs  .

