bacillus sp.iaazea mays cd stress burkholderia sp.iaasolanum lycopersicum l. cd stress bacillus subtilisiaabrassica juncea l. ni stress bacillus megateriumiaavinca rosea l. ni stress achromobacter xylosoxidans bacillus pumilussahelianthus annuus drought stress serratia marcescenssazea mays salt stress micrococcus luteusckzea mays drought stress arthrobacter sp.

salt stress azospirillum lipoferumgatriticum aestivum l. drought stress phoma glomerata penicillium sp.gacucumis sativus drought stress bacillus amyloliquefaciensabaoryza sativa l. salt stress bacillus licheniformis pseudomonas fluorescensabavitis vinifera l. water stress trichoderma asperellumiaa ga abacucumis sativus salt stress bacillus aryabhattaiiaa ga abaglycine max l. merr.

sinorhizobium sp.serratia plymuthica stenotrophomonas rhizophila pseudomonas fluorescens pseudomonas extremorientalisacinetobacter faecalis bacillus cereus enterobacter hormaechei pantoea agglomeranscurtobacterium flaccumfaciens ensifer garamanticusiaatriticum aestivum l. salt stress iaacucumis sativus salt stress iaatriticum aestivum l. salt stress iaahordeum vulgare salt stress streptomyces coelicolor streptomyces geysiriensisiaatriticum aestivum l. salt stress bacillus subtilisiaaacacia gerrardii benth.

salt stress bacillus licheniformisiaatriticum aestivum l. salt stress bacillus subtilis arthrobacter sp.iaatriticum aestivum l. salt stress pseudomonas putida bacillus megateriumiaatrifolium repens drought stress marinobacterium sp.

in an earlier report the application of kinetin to chickpea stimulated plant growth and development under salt stress   and in another report kinetin alleviated cadmium stress in eggplant by enhancing its antioxidant potential  .abscisic acidlike other phytohormones aba is known to have an important role in plants by improving stress responses and adaptation.

prgb06 6.8 ug ml-1  .microbial phytohormones in plant stress tolerancemicrobes synthesize low amounts of phytohormones and improve stress tolerance and plant growth under various stress conditions including salinity heat drought and metal toxicity as reported in many studies       .

in these conditions cr-resistant p. mirabilis isolates t2cr and crp450 combined with sa mitigated the toxic effect of cr improved the root and shoot growth of maize and reduced oxidative stress in maize tissue by elevating its antioxidant activities.the tripartite interaction of root-associated microbes with symbiotic microbes and the host plant is also a mutualistic interaction that improves plant growth under stress through the induction of osmoregulation hormonal balance biochemical processes and changes in metabolic interfaces among partners    .

in another study aba treatment increased plant growth nutrient uptake andnitrogen fixation in the common bean under salt stress   .gibberellic acidanother important plant growth regulator is gibberellin which has a vital role in seed dormancy formation of floral organs and lateral shoot growth  .

salt stress pseudomonas sp.iaazea mays salt and heat stresses serratia sp.iaacicer arietinum l. nutrient stress achromobacter xylosoxidansiaabrassica juncea cu stress pseudomonas putidaiaaglycine max l. merr.

scms54 produced iaa and improved plant growth and stress tolerance of tomato to cd stress.

based on important studies on the negative effect of abiotic stresses on plant growth regulators we have also presented some potential traits of microbial phytohormones that can be used to increase plant growth and tolerance to stress factors.

in this review we will focus on the plant growth regulators synthesized by root-associated microbes their diversity physiology and their involvement in stress tolerance of plants to abiotic stresses including drought salt and heavy metals.role of phytohormones in plant response to abiotic stressauxinsauxins are important phytohormones and the auxin indole- 3-acetic acid iaa was shown to promote several growth and developmental events such as cell division elongation and differentiation  .

similar results were observed by  in which b. subtilis synthesizing iaa stimulated root growth and ni accumulation in the indian mustard plant b. juncea l.. b. megaterium mcr-8 which produced auxin at a concentration of 68.5 mg 25 ml-1 alleviated ni stress in vinca rosea and stimulated root and shoot growth.

28 187-192. cardinale m. ratering s. suarez c. montoya a. m. z. geissler-plaum r. and schnell s. 2015. paradox of plant growth promotion potential of rhizobacteriaand their actual promotion effect on growth of barley hordeum vulgare l. under salt stress.

76 1145-1152. forchetti g. masciarelli o. izaguirre m. j. alemano s. alvarez d. and abdala g. 2010. endophytic bacteria improve seedling growth of sunflower under water stress produce salicylic acid and inhibit growth of pathogenic fungi.

