The analysis of plant microbiome data has brought about a paradigm shift in our understanding of its role in health and disease and has substantial consequences for biocontrol and health issues.Keywords plant-associated diversity plant microbiome plant pathogens biocontrol plant protection breedingINTRODUCTIONThe plant microbiome has been known to be one of the key determinants of plant health and productivity for more than a century.

Most of these plant protection methods can influence the plant microbiome and therefore new insights should be taken into consideration for the improvement of plant protection strategies.

The potential mechanisms of microbiome shifts are not well studied but it is assumed that they might include several direct interactions with plant pathogens as well as indirect interactions via the plant by stimulation of the plant immune system Berg  Lugtenberg and Kamilova .

Tel43 316 8738310 Fax 43 316 8738819 E-mail One sentence summary To our opinion new insights into the plant microbiome have brought about a paradigm shift in our understanding of its role in health and disease and have substantial consequences for biocontrol and health issues.Editor Marcus HornABSTRACTThe microbiome of plants plays a crucial role in both plant and ecosystem health.

Although the structure of plant microbiomes is well studied there are many knowledge gaps because of the plant species-specific component and be- cause most of the studies were performed on crops and model plants like Arabidopsis Bulgarelli et al.

Altogether the plant microbiota has pro- found effects on soil plant and agro-ecosystem health Sessitsch and Mitter .

This overview of the state-of-the-art in current literature in addition to own research insights shows that the analysis of plant microbiome data has brought abouta paradigm shift in our understanding of its role in health and disease and has substantial consequences for biocontrol and beyond.NOVEL INSIGHTS INTO PLANT MICROBIOMESPlant-associated microbial communities and their functions for plant hostsMicrobial diversity and balance is a key for healthy plants Yan et al.

In detail already in the first step of a plant's life cycle the plant and especially the seed microbiome are crucial for the host Truyens et al.

highlights the importance of chemical signaling and biochemical and genetic events which determine the efficacy of benign microbes in promoting the development of beneficial traits in plants.Beyond the plant host the plant microbiome is intercon- nected with the ecosystem.

In some cases the breeding strat- egy was targeted at combating pathogens increasing yield and various growth characteristics but historically it was a mainly random selection process for plant phenotypes and changes in the plant microbiome were neglected.In general terms most of the management strategies and treatments in agriculture have an impact on microbial diversity and community composition of soils.

