some studies tried to analyze the differences at cellular level between bav and tav diseased taa sug- gesting a maturation defect of smcs in bav vs. tav taa samples  together with a loss of smcs with contractile- phenotype and the emergence of a differentiated myofibro- blast line  and a lower proliferation rate of bav vs. tav endothelial cells in vitro .overall results indicate an increase of pa concentration only in taa samples from bav patients vs. tav patients and organ donors fig.

however we highlighted a signifi- cant positive correlation between gene expression datasets for sat1 and amd r  0.70 p  0.014 and for sat1 and odc1 r  0.72 p  0.008 in bav taa samples suggesting a co-regulation at mrna level of the catabolic enzyme sat1 and of the anabolic enzymes odc1 and amd1 in bav early aortopathy.western blot analysis was performed on proteins extracted from whole bav tav and donor taa samples n  5 for each group with an aortic diameter  45 mm and revealed a significant increase of slc7a1cat-1 in both tav and bav patients vs. donor taa samples 3.06- and 2.36-fold increase respectively but no significant difference in bav vs. tav taa samples fig.

column graphs in a and b densitometric analysis of western blots as shown in ctaa samples bav patients exhibit different alterations of polyamine concentration vs. tav patients and donorshplc analysis was performed on tissue homogenates of whole bav n  9 tav n  7 and donor n  6 taa samples with an aortic diameter  45 mm and revealed a significant 3.02-fold increase of put and a twofold increase of spd in bav vs. tav and donor taa sam- ples fig.

a moderate non-significant inverse correla- tion between aortic diameter and pa concentration data for all three pas was highlighted in bav taa samples r  - 0.60 for put.a moderate non-significant positive correlation between spm concentration and age was observed in bav taa samples r  0.61.odc1 exhibits a different subcellular localization in bav vs. tav and donor taa sampleswe evaluated the subcellular localization of odc1 in taa samples from donors n  6 and from bav n  6 and tav n  6 taa samples with mild aortic dilation as odc1 shuttling between nucleus and cytoplasm can affect the activity of this rate-limiting enzyme.the preliminary histological evaluation of aortic cross- sections confirmed our previous observations in other sets of samples with analogous clinical and demographic character- istics   mainly revealing a thinner altered intima and a slight cell loss in the media layer in both tav and bav taa samples.

p values  0.05 were considered significant.summaries for continuous variables are presented as mean - sem for categorical variables as numbers and percentages.resultstaa samples from bav patients exhibit different changes in the expression of genes involvedin polyamine pathway vs. tav patients and donorsrt-pcr analysis was performed on total rna extracted from whole bav n  30 tav n  23 and donor n  10 taa samples with an aortic diameter  45 mm and revealeda significant decrease of mrnas coding for the anabolic enzymes of the pa pathway fig.

d but no significant difference between bav and tav taa samples.enos mrna showed no change in taa samples from bav and tav patients in comparison with donors fig.

g.finally the mrna coding for the catabolic enzyme of the pa pathway sat1 showed a significant 2.78-fold increase in tav vs. donor taa samples and a significant decrease in bav vs. tav taa samples fig.

a b only while spm showed a significant 30 decrease in tav vs. donor samples and a significant increase in bav vs. tav taa samples fig.

c g.discussionmultiple potential interconnections for polyamine pathway in aortopathywe investigated for the first time the potential involvement of the pa pathway in aortopathy progression in patients with stenotic tav or bav through a multilevel analysis sug- gested by its complex regulation aiming at the preservation of homeostasis of intracellular pas .pas could play a key role in tav and bav aortopathy characterized by changes in smc phenotype  together with alterations in collagen turnover and cross-linking  oxidative stress  emt  cell loss and medial degen- eration .

we focused on differential analysis of key members of poly- amine pathway and on polyamine concentration in non-dilated taa samples from patients with either stenotic tricuspid aortic valve tav or bav diameter  45 mm vs. normal aortas from organ donors with the aim of revealing a potential involvement of polyamines in early aortopathy.

bav taa samples showed an increased concentration of putrescine and spermidine vs. tav and donor samples together with a decreased mrna level of polyamine anabolic enzymes and of the putative polyamine transporter slc7a1cat-1.

the catabolic enzyme spermidinespermine n1-acetyltransferase 1 showed a significant mrna increase in tav samples only together with a decreased concentra- tion of spermine.

odc was located mainly in smooth muscle cell smc nucleus in tav and donor samples while it was present also in smc cytoplasm in bav samples suggesting its activation.

in conclusion bav but not tav non-dilated samples show increased polyamine concentration accompanied by the activation of a regulatory negative feedback mechanism.keywords bicuspid aortic valve  aortopathy  aneurysm  thoracic ascending aorta  polyamines  ornithine decarboxylase introduction amalia forte1 department of experimental medicine sectionof biotechnology and molecular biology universita della campania l. vanvitelli via l de crecchio 7 80138 naples italy2 department of cardiothoracic sciences universita della campania l. vanvitelli naples italy3 department of experimental medical science lund university lund sweden4 present address laboratory of transgenic models of diseases division biocev institute of moleculargenetics of the czech academy of sciences v.v.i vestec czech republicpolyamines pas are small aliphatic cationic molecules syn- thesized via a highly regulated pathway in almost all living cells.

aortic wall remodeling processes may therefore be concomitantly affected by congenital defects and by an altered biomechanical environment secondary to the long- standing haemodynamic disorder.surprisingly despite its potential involvement in patho- physiological alterations of the vascular wall including those affecting matrix remodeling smc phenotype and secretory activity the pa pathway has not been investigated so far in taa aortopathy in tav andor bav patients.

