to study possible effect of treatment on disease course and outcome in patients with and without snps we compared various forms of treatment mentioned above with different genotypes of bm patients from whom significant difference was found in certain clinical features tto 5. no significant differences were observed.discussionto our knowledge this is the first study carried out in china to show the relationships between tlrs and sus- ceptibility severity and prognosis of bacterial meningitis in pediatric patients.

openreceived 26 july 2016accepted 13 january 2017published 16 february 2017polymorphisms of toll-like receptors 2 and 9 and severity and prognosis of bacterial meningitis in chinese childrenpingping zhang1 nan zhang2 linlin liu1 kai zheng2 liang zhu1 junping zhu2 lina cao2 yiyuan jiang2 gang liu1  qiushui he23toll-like receptors tlrs play a crucial role in innate immunity protecting the host from bacterial pathogens.

altogether data from these studies suggest that bacterial infection leads to a tlr-dependent innate response and functional var- iations in tlrs can influence susceptibility and outcome of various bacterial infections.although a vast number of tlr snps have been identified there is no reported study to investigate the pos- sible associations between the tlr snps and susceptibility severity or prognosis of bm in chinese children.

prognostic factors related to sequelae in childhood bacterial meningitis data from a greek meningitis registry.

abbreviations bm bacterial meningitis crpc-reactive protein csf cerebrospinal fluid.detection of viruses was not performed in the study subjects and a proportion of patients may have suffered from co-viral infection the association observed between tlr3 polymorphism and bm patients should be interpreted with caution.

further study is needed to confirm whether the bacterial load in the blood is linked to severity and outcome of bm patients.in this study all treatments for patients were conducted before genotyping of tlrs was performed.

a long-term follow-up study was conducted by one study personnel pz through phone call or follow up visit by glasgow outcome scale-extended pediatric revision gos-e peds which provides the gold standard for measuring meningitis associated brain damage outcome.

we investigated whether bacterial meningitis bm in children was associated with gene polymorphisms in tlr2 rs3804099 tlr3 rs3775291 and rs3775290 and tlr9 rs352139 and rs352140.

our finding suggested that genetic variations in tlr2 and tlr9 are associated with severity and prognosis of bacterial meningitis in chinese children.

despite immunization programs and improvement of antimicrobial treatment and the use of adjunctive therapy such as corticosteroids cns infections especially bacterial meningitis bm remain a signifi- cant cause of pediatric illness and death in low and middle income countries.

it has been shown that tlr2 plays a significant role in a murine model of experimental pneumococcal meningitis and the deficient tlr2 leads to reduced bacterial clearance from the cns.

it is known that s. pneumoniae is one major pathogen causing bacterial meningitis.

abbreviations csf cerebrospinal fluid or odds ratio ci confidence interval.our finding supports a role of genetic variation of tlr2 and tlr9 in severity and prognosis of chinese han children to bacterial meningitis.

bacterial meningitis in the united states 1998-2007. n engl j med.

364 2016-2025 2011.scarborough m.  thwaites g. e. the diagnosis and management of acute bacterial meningitis in resource-poor settings.

