p0.05 was considered to be remarkably different 63.abbreviationstnbs 2 4 6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid sasp sulfasalazine n normal group m tnbsethanol model group pp tnbsethanol  sasp 0.5 gkg hp tnbs ethanol  high dose treatment group 200 mgkg mp tnbsethanol  middle dose treatment group 100 mg kg lp tnbsethanol  low dose treatment group 50 mgkgacknowledgmentsthis work was financially supported by jiangsu collaborative innovation center of chinese medicinal resources industrialization no.

while normal rats were rectally administered with normal saline at equivalent instead of tnbs 55.experimental procedures24 hours day 1 after induction of colitis all the rats were randomly assigned to six groups five rats were chosen in each group normal group n receiving normal saline at equivalent and received intragastric administration ig saline during treatment tnbs model group m receiving ethanol vehicle with tnbs tnbs  saline sulfasalazine group pp receiving sasp 0.5 gkg tnbs  sasp chrysanthemum polysaccharides cp high middle and low dose treatment group hp mp lp receiving cp 200 mgkg tnbs  hp 100 mgkg tnbs mp and 50 mgkg tnbs  lp respectively.

n normal group m tnbs-induced group pp sasp 0.5gkg hp 200 mgkg mp 100 mgkg lp 50 mgkg.different treatment groups supplementary figure 3. the greatest variations in intestinal microflora were found at the treatment of low dosage of chrysanthemum polysaccharides lp 50 mgkg which approached the normal group.

meanwhile in our previous reports compared with the dss-treated colitis group the scfas content in the different polysaccharides- treated group has remarkably increased which indicated that chrysanthemum polysaccharides could contribute to bowel health by promoting scfas yield 21.it is reported that enterotoxins can be produced by bacteroides and clostridia species characterized by proteolytic enzymes that heighten intestinal mucosal permeability and bacterial absorption 42. in this study more abundance of bacteroides were observed in the model group than that in the normal group.

n normal group m tnbs-induced group pp sasp 0.5gkg hp 200 mgkg mp 100 mgkg lp 50 mgkg.table 1 richness and diversity estimation for colon contents bacterial populations based on alpha diversity analysis p0.05 m vs n  p0.01  p0.05 polysaccharides group vs m.screening of characteristic differential bacteria and intervention of chrysanthemum polysaccharidesto corroborate the correlation between intestinal microflora and the effects of chrysanthemum polysaccharides treatment the abundance of different bacteria in all samples was analyzed.

disease activity index dai was prominently higher in the model group than that in the normal group p  0.01. comparison with the model group treatments with low and middle doses of chrysanthemum polysaccharides and sasp notably reduced dai p  0.01. however no remarkable differences were observed in hp groups figure 1b.

in table 1 the ace chao1 shannon and simpson indexesin the tnbs group were much lower than those in the normal control group which were dramatically risen by chrysanthemum polysaccharides treatment p0.01.

the major bacteria were multifarious in the n m pp hp mp and lp treatment groups supplementary figure 4. ruminococcaceae prevotellaceae prevotella 9 ruminococcaceae ucg005 blautia clostridiumsensustricto1 clostridiaceae1faecalitalea ruminococcus1 selenomonadles phascolarctobacterium acidaminococcaceae and negativicutes were the core microbes observed in the tnbs-induced colitis m while fiemicutes clostridiales clostridia bacilli lactobacillales lactobacillaceae lactobacillus romboutsia and peptostreptococcaceae were the core microbes in the normal group n. the results were accordant with the previous report that clostridiaceae prevotellaceae and ruminococcaceae were observed to be at higher levels in the individuals suffering from chronic inflammatory bowel disease 16. in the chrysanthemum polysaccharides treatment groups bacteroidetes bacteroidales bacteroidia bacteroidaceae bacteroides and prevotellaceae ucg001 were the core microbes in hp lachnospiraceae nk4a136 ruminococcaceae ucg014 turicibacter and enterorhabdus were the core microbes in mp and akkermansia verrucomicrobiae virrucomicrobia verrucomicrobiaceae verrucomicrobiales moryella erysipelatoclostridium enterococcaceae enterococcus coriobacteriaceae ucg002 ruminococcaceae ucg009 anaerostipes allobaculum catabacter bifidobacetriales bifidobacterium bifidobacteriaceae and bacteroidetes were the core microbes in lp.figure 2 chrysanthemum polysaccharides regulated cytokine profiles in colons mucosa of sd rats with tnbs- induced colitis.

otus were linked with the samples and their sequences would be found in otu-nodes 24. the otus network-based analyses showed that samples from lp mp and pp were more closely related to n compared to hp and m figure 3 which suggested that samples among lp mp and pp possessed higher similarity than that among hp and m. the above analyses would provide supports for the hypothesis that different treatment factors were selective pressures on microbiota and play key roles in the protective effects on tnbs-induced colitis.comparison of the gut bacterial community among different treatment groupsin this study notable differences in richness and diversity of intestinal microflora among the different treatment groups were observed.

tnbs treated rats showed substantial reduction in colon length compared to the normal group p  0.001. chrysanthemum polysaccharides at 50 mgkg alleviated the situation of colon shortening figure 1c p  0.05. the histopathological characteristics of colon tissues from each group were evaluated by he staining.

compositional comparisons revealed inconsistent results but have generally identified decrease of the firmicutes phylum in ibd 2. the ratio firmicutesbacteroidetes was changed between the normal group and tnbs group 22.71-2.82 in n vs 2.73- 1.33 in m p0.001.

n normal group m tnbs-induced group pp sasp 0.5gkg hp 200 mgkg mp 100 mgkg lp 50 mgkg.figure 6 a the relationship between inflammatory factorscytokines in colon epithelial tissue samples and intestinal flora based on cca.

compared to the normal group figure 1a tnbs-induced colitis rats m remarkably lost weight throughout the trial period p  0.01 which was rescued by the chrysanthemum polysaccharides treatment hp 200 mgkg mp 100 mgkg lp 50 mgkg.

using 16s rrna gene sequences analysis of content samples from the normal group tnbs-induced colitis and sequential chrysanthemum polysaccharides treatment groups we observed that profiles of predominant bacteria changed persistently.

however in our studies the abundance of butyricicoccus and clostridium notably increased after chrysanthemum polysaccharides treatment compared with the model group.

