unchallenged sea bass larvae survived significantly better than larvae challenged with the vibrio anguillarum strain 87-9-117 kh2  900 df  1 p 0.001. the survival of the v. anguillarum chal- lenged larvae differed from each other kh2  10 df  4 p  0.05 however there was no difference between the control group no phb and the phb treated groups suppl.

european sea bass dicentrarchus labrax larvae were purchased from a commercial hatchery ecloserie marine de gravelines france at 3 dph and randomly distributed over 15 green tanks 100 larvae l-1 at geomar kiel germany.

afterwards larvae were briefly rinsed in distilled water to avoid salt residues freeze-dried for 18 h at -55 degc and weighed in order to determine the larval dry weight ug.furthermore fulton's condition factor k was calculated according to equation 1k  wl3where w equals the dry weight ug and l the total length mm of the larvae.

at 11 dph 18 larvae and at 22 dph 6 larvae were randomly sampled from each tank killed with an overdose of ms 222 transferred into rnalater and kept at 4 degc for 24 h before being stored at -20 degc.

since the larvae were too small to remove the intestinal tract whole single larvae were used for dna extraction dneasy 96 blood  tissue kit qiagen.

therefore 100 larvae were taken out of each tank all treatments at 22 dph and randomly distributed over 2 aquaria with a volume of 1.5 l resulting in 50 larvae per aquaria.

larvae were not fed over the course of the experiment and dead larvae were removed daily.enrichment of rotifers with 13c labeled phb-accumulated bacteria.

the expression of ferritin was significantly down-regulated in treatment lff 0.7 - 0.07-fold dct  2.6 - 0.22 compared to the control 1.0 - 0.04-fold dct  1.8 - 0.09. at this pointtable 2. growth-related parameters of sea bass larvae administered a low phb dose from mouth opening onwards lmo a low phb dose from first feeding onwards lff a high phb dose from mouth opening onwards hmo a high phb dose from first feeding onwards hff or no phb control respectively.10 larvae per tank were sampled at 22 dph.

an improvement in sur- vival and growth after phb administration was also found in blue mussel mytilus edulis larvae chinese mitten crab eriocheir sinensis larvae giant tiger prawn penaeus monodon post-larvaeand sea bass juveniles.

openreceived 23 june 2017accepted 16 october 2017 published xx xx xxxxpoly-b-hydroxybutyrate administration during early life effects on performance immunity and microbial community of european sea bass yolk-sac larvaeandrea franke 1 olivia roth1 peter de schryver25 till bayer 1 linsey garcia-gonzalez3 sven kunzel4 peter bossier2 joanna j. miest16  catriona clemmesen1the reliable production of marine fish larvae is one of the major bottlenecks in aquaculture due to high mortalities mainly caused by infectious diseases.

to evaluate if the compound poly-b-hydroxybutyrate phb might be a suitable immunoprophylactic measure in fish larviculture its capacity to improve immunity and performance in european sea bass dicentrarchus labrax yolk-sac larvae was explored.

hence the present study highlights the need for more research focusing on the immunostimulation of different early developmental stages for gaining a more comprehensive picture and advancing a sustainable production of high quality fry.in marine aquaculture the stable and cost-effective production of high quality fish larvae is still hampered due to low survival during larval rearing mainly caused by infectious diseases.

in european sea bass larvae for example maternal igm was not detectable anymore by day 5 post hatch.

accordingly fish larvae mainly rely on their innate immune response while adap- tive immunity still needs to be acquired.

an alternative method is the stimulation of the immune response in fish larvae to improve their health and thus prevent the outbreak of diseases.1geomar helmholtz centre for ocean research kiel evolutionary ecology of marine fishes kiel germany.

