in this context it is especially notable that one of the three b. thetaiotaomicron mannan puls is located on a mobile element that is struc- turally similar and homologous to that harboring porphyran utilization genes in b. plebeius .give and take the roles of glycan utilization in gut ecologythe coordinated carbohydrate utilization systems of puls represent an impressive evolutionary solution for capturing valuable carbon sources in competitive environ- ments which avoid the limitations of extracellular systems such as cellulosomes or freely diffusing enzymes employed by fungi and other bacteria.

regardless of the regulatory system utilized by a specific pul there generally appears to be a finely tuned interpretation of complex glycan signals that is necessary for a targeted dynamic response with some excep- tions monosaccharides are typically not inducers    and may in fact repress pul expression .pulomicsas introduced above susc-susd pairs are hallmarks of puls and have been used to enumerate pul complements among the genomes of key human gut symbionts including b. thetaiotaomicron 88 puls bacteroides ovatus 126 puls and bacteroides cellulosilyticus wh2 113 puls   .

may have also acquired algal polysaccharide utilization genes from marine bacteria  .the ability of gut bacteria to adapt to structurally complex dietary polysaccharides was highlighted by the discovery and detailed characterization of three puls from b. thetaiotaomicron involved in the utilization of a-mannans from the yeast cell wall .

.mann aj hahnke rl huang s werner j xing p barbeyron t huettel b stuber k reinhardt r harder j glockner fo amann ri teeling h. 2013. the genome of the alga-associated marine flavobacterium for- mosa agariphila kmm 3901t reveals a broad potential for degradation of algal polysaccharides.

.bakolitsa c xu q rife cl abdubek p astakhova t axelrod hl carlton d chen c chiu hj clayton t das d deller mc duan l ellrott k farr cl feuerhelm j grant jc grzechnik a han gw jaroszewski l jin kk klock he knuth mw kozbial p krishna ss kumar a lam ww mar- ciano d mcmullan d miller md morse at nigoghossian e nopakun a okach l puckett c reyes r tien hj trame cb van den bedem h weekes d hodgson ko wooley j elsliger ma deacon am godzik a lesley sa wilson ia.

.naas ae mackenzie ak mravec j schuckel j willats wg eijsink vg pope pb.

.hemsworth gr thompson aj stepper j sobala lf coyle t larsbrink j spadiut o goddard-borger ed stubbs ka brumer h davies gj.

together eight genes were identified as part of a single gene cluster collectively named the starch utilization system sus which established a new paradigm of complex carbohydrate utilization  .

.despres j forano e lepercq p comtet-marre s jubelin g chambon cyeoman cj berg miller me fields cj martens e terrapon n henrissat b white ba mosoni p. 2016. xylan degradation by the human gut bacteroides xylanisolvens xb1at involves two distinct gene clusters that are linked at the transcriptional level.

monosaccharides are represented by consortium for functional glycomics symbols .the archetypal pul the susthe first evidence of a concerted molecular system for complex glycan degradation in bacteroidetes bacteria was uncovered through pioneering studies of dietary starch utilization by the human gut symbiont bacteroides thetaiotaomicron which were initi- ated in the 1980s by abigail salyers and coworkers.

one of the first examples of the comprehensive characterization of a pul directed toward a more complex plant cell wall polysaccharide was that of the xyloglucan utilization locus xygul from the human gut symbiont b. ovatus  .

2012. complex carbohydrate utilization by the healthy human microbiome.

2014. superresolution imaging captures carbohydrate utilization dy- namics in human gut symbionts.

2009. structure of a susd homologue bt1043 involved in mucin o-glycan utilization in a prominent human gut symbiont.

2013. polysaccha- rides utilization in human gut bacterium bacteroides thetaiotaomicron comparative genomics reconstruction of metabolic and regulatory networks.

