Analysis illustrated that duration of hospital stay was a primary determinant of infection given patients' increased likelihood of intensive neutropenia treatment or long-term antibiotic exposure.In 2009 NHDS data estimated that the average LOS for an adult primary cancer diagnosis was 1.6 days longer than a non-cancer diagnosis with secondary malignan- cies lung cancer and prostate cancer leading in number of inpatient discharges .CDI rates varied based upon cancer type.

Therefore the objectives of this study were to describe longitudinal trends in CDI incidence among hospitalized cancer patients in the U.S. describe trends in mortality and inpatient length of stay LOS in cancer patients with CDI and compare outcomes in cancer patients with and without CDI.MethodsData sourceThe data source for this study was the U.S. National Hospital Discharge Surveys NHDS from 2001 to 2010.

Furthermore cancer patients with CDI are at greater risk for mortality and a longer hospital stay.The rates of CDI among cancer patients found here are relatively large compared to the general population of U.S. hospitalized adults.

conducted a survey of 11 U.S. cancer centers aiming to determine the rate of hospital- onset CDI HO-CDI in hematopoietic stem cell trans- plant HSCT and cancer patients.

This increase in stay was largely attributed to cancer- related care as the cancer patients often required neu- tropenia management total parenteral nutrition or pain control In a study of 5594 adult patients receiv- ing cancer treatment with CDI CDI-related mortality was 19.7 .

reported that 32 of cancer patients undergo- ing chemotherapy had at least one hospitalization and cancer inpatients have been found to have longer me- dian LOS compared to non-cancer patients.

In a retro- spective study of inpatients 36 of cancer patients were found to have LOS  7 days compared to 26 of non- cancer patients .

It is hypothesized these differences are due to chemotherapy regimens and antibiotic use leading up to transplantation in addition to prolonged hospital stay  - The distinction between blood cancer versus solid cancer is of importance in CDI prevention and treatment.

BMC Infectious Diseases 2017 17448DOI 10.1186s12879-017-2553-zPoorer outcomes among cancer patients diagnosed with Clostridium difficile infections in United States community hospitalsAndrew Delgado12 Ivan A. Reveles123 Felicia T. Cabello12 and Kelly R. Reveles12BackgroundClostridium difficile is the most common pathogen con- tributing to healthcare-associated infections This Gram-positive anaerobic bacterium can colonize the hu- man gut typically following health care contact and ex- posure to agents that disrupt the normal gut microbiota like antibiotics.

Second immunosuppression from the disease or drug therapy could predispose cancer patients to develop clinical infection rather than colonization.

