although the effects of gut microbiota on the host are complex this pattern of gut microbiota differences indicates that the sebago population has advantageous gut microbiota relative to the lahave population across the competition treatments and may thus reflect a higher interspecific competition tolerance in the sebago population  .the sebago population exhibited significantly higher spe- cies richness in gut microbiota than the lahave population across all treatments.

there were six treatments for each atlantic salmon pop- ulation table  atlantic salmon reared alone 32 atlantic salmon atlantic salmon reared in a 11 ratio with one of the four non-native species 16 atlantic salmon and 16 one of the non-native species and atlantic salmon reared with all the four species combined 16 atlantic salmon four chinook salmon four coho salmon four rainbow trout and four brown trout.

gut microbiota were assessed in the atlantic salmon onlytherefore we expected that the interspecific competition treatments should result in a range of competitive effects on the atlantic salmon gut microbiota when they competed for food and microhabitats.at the end of july 2013 after 10 months in the artificial stream tanks six to nine atlantic salmon from each tank were randomly collected and humanely euthanized by an overdose of buffered ms-222.

the likely mechanism for this loss of probiotic bacteria in the lahave atlantic salmon is competition-related stress as previous studies showed that stress decreases the abundance of lactobacillus in human and monkey gut microbiota  .given the impact of interspecific competition on the gut microbiota in the lahave atlantic salmon it was surprising that we did not detect any significant increase in the genera which includes pathogenic bacteria e.g.

this difference may thus represent locally adaptive host- microbiota relationships given the role of the gut microbiota in fish health.the gut microbiota plays an important role in the health of their host and the gut contains both beneficial bacteria and opportunistic pathogens .

2016 the effect of diet and environmental temperature on the faecal microbiota of farmed tasmanian atlantic salmon salmo salar l. aquac res 47660- 672. doiwong s rawls jf 2012 intestinal microbiota composition in fishes is influenced by host ecology and environment mol ecol 213100-3102schmidt vt smith kf melvin dw amaral-zettler la 2015 community assembly of a euryhaline fish microbiome during sa- linity acclimation mol ecol 242537-2550. doidehler ce secombes cj martin sam 2017 environmental and physiological factors shape the gut microbiota of atlantic salmon parr salmo salar l. aquac amst neth 467149-157. doidavis dj bryda ec gillespie ch ericsson ac 2016 microbial modulation of behavior and stress responses in zebrafish larvae behav brain res 311219-227. doizarkasi kz taylor rs abell gcj et al.

treatment symbols as indicates atlantic salmon reared alone ch co bt and rt indicate atlantic salmon reared with one of the four species chinook salmon coho salmon brown trout and rainbow trout respectively m indicates atlantic salmon reared with all four non-native salmonidssignificant effects on weighted unifrac distances in the lahave population r2  0.122 p  0.011 but no signif- icant effects on unweighted unifrac distances in the lahave population or weighted and unweighted unifrac distances in the sebago population.

the adonis analysis of beta diversity based on all the fish gut microbiota samples showed that population and treatment had significant effects on the weighted unifrac distances population r2  0.083 p  0.001 treatment r2  0.054 p  0.009. the effect of population on unweighted unifrac distances was signif- icant r2  0.037 p  0.001 while the treatment effect was marginally non-significant r2  0.035 p  0.077. the effect of the interaction between population and treatment on weighted and unweighted unifrac distances was not significant.

however the effect of interspecific competition on the gut microbiota has not been explored in any species.to explore the role of interspecific competition in deter- mining gut microbial community composition and to test for evidence for competition response differences between source populations for atlantic salmon reintroduction we conducted interspecific competition experiments using two atlantic salmon populations.

2016 atlantic salmon salmo salar l. gastrointestinal microbial community dynamics in relation to digesta properties and diet microb ecol 71589-603. doigivens ce ransom b bano n hollibaugh jt 2015 comparison of the gut microbiomes of 12 bony fish and 3 shark species mar ecol prog ser 518209-223. doigreen tj smullen r barnes ac 2013 dietary soybean protein concentrate-induced intestinal disorder in marine farmed atlantic salmon salmo salar is associated with alterations in gut microbiota vet microbiol 166286-292. doinavarrete p fuentes p de la fuente l et al.

given the close relationship between host physiology and gut microbiota demonstrating stress response differences in gut microbiota composition among populations in common garden experiments will pro- vide insight into predicting population performance differ- ences under the stressful conditions associated with a novel environment.atlantic salmon salmo salar was once a native species in lake ontario but was extirpated late in the nineteenth century mainly as a result of habitat fragmentation and degradation .

differences in the 13 otus among treatments indicate that gut microbiota showed response to interspecific competition and the response in gut microbiota is population specific.

we also conducted principal coor- dinates analysis pcoa based on weighted and unweightedunifrac distances for each population to visualize the com- munity composition differences among the treatments.to study the effects of population and interspecific compe- tition on gut microbiota at the individual otu level we ana- lyzed relative abundance for the 180 core otus that appeared in at least 70 of the gut samples table s1.

queen's printer for ontario pictonscott rj noakes dlg beamish fwh carl lm 2003 chinook salmon impede atlantic salmon conservation in lake ontario ecol freshw fish 1266-73. doiscott rj poos ms noakes dlg beamish fwh 2005 effects of exotic salmonids on juvenile atlantic salmon behaviour ecol freshw fish 14283-288. doivan zwol ja neff bd wilson cc 2012 the effect of competi- tion among three salmonids on dominance and growth during the juvenile life stage ecol freshw fish 21533-540. doihoude als wilson cc neff bd 2015 effects of competition with four nonnative salmonid species on atlantic salmon from three populations trans am fish soc 1441081-1090. doihoude als wilson cc neff bd 2015 competitive interactions among multiple non-native salmonids and two populations of atlantic salmon ecol freshw fish 2444-55. doihoude als smith ad wilson cc et al.

clearly changes in the composition and diversity of gut microbiota can affect the health of the host and the intestinal environment provided by the host can in turn affect the com- position and dynamics of the gut microbial community as well.although the community structure of the fish gut microbi- ota is the result of complex interactions between the bacteria and their host  many external factors also can affect theelectronic supplementary material the online version of this article doi contains supplementary material which is available to authorized users.

