when comparing the average dispersion of individuals fed rye- and triticale-based diets the faecal microbiota of the rye treatment showed increased dispersion values table s6 rye vs triticale otu 119 vs 086 metabolites 124 vs 087 both p  005. high variations in the struc- ture of faecal microbiota of the rye treatment have as well been demonstrated by multidimensional scaling plot fig.

this is in contrast to the higher crude protein content of triticale described above but a decreased detection of metabolite concentrations in faeces and an increased prediction of the pathway in faecal microbiota might be due to an increased absorption of metabolites into host cells from the git topping and clifton 2001 vogt and wolever 2003.formation of short-chain fatty acids and gut healthin both feeding experiments the ileal microbiota was dominated by lactic acid bacteria like lactobacillus and streptococcus with the abundance of lactobacillus being increased in rye-based treatments and streptococcus pro- moted by triticale.

1b as samples of the rye treatment show greater distance to each other compared to samples of the triti- cale treatment which cluster more closely together.discussionthe microbiota's response to a sole source nourishment was studied with 16 cannulated pigs for 8 weeks with eight pigs solely fed rye and other eight pigs solely fed triticale.

the bar chart represents the relative abundance of bacteria genera with an average abundance  1 derived from rye-based hatched and triticale-based feeding treatment dotted and proportions being significantly different p  005.bifidobacterium bacteroides prevotellaclostridium sensu stricto clostridium xi lactobacillussarcina streptococcus veillonella escherichiashigella-30-20-100102030relative abundance  averaged by grain typesamples from triticale-based treatment clostridium sensu stricto was the predominant genera and showed a fourfold increase in abundance compared to rye-based treatment.grain cereal effect on faecal microbiota and bacterial metabolitesadditionally to the taxonomical structure of the faecal microbiota profiles of metabolites showed variations in response to the grain species.

permanova test showed a significant period effect on microbiota structure at otu level p  005. a multivariate dispersion analysis was performed on faecal microbiota structure both on the level of otus and metabolites to assess individual varia- tion in faecal communities along the present experiment.

clostridium sensu stricto was nega- tively linked to the abundance of olsenella uncultured prevotellaceae and uncultured porphyromonadaceae which were only detected in an average abundance 01.regardless grain type olsenella and erysipelotrichaceae incertae sedis were positively correlated with a signifi- cantly increased average abundance by rye-based diets compared to triticale rye vs triticale olsenella 31 vs 01 erysipelotrichaceae incertae sedis 31 vs 04.the correlation analyses of faecal microbiota of the rye treatment fig.

however triticale significantly promoted the abundance of streptococcus in ileal digesta and clostridium sensu stricto in faeces.conclusions diets based on rye or triticale affect varying intestinal microbiota both of taxonomical and metabolic structure with rye indicating an enhanced saccharolytic potential and triticale a more cellulolytic potential.

differences were considered to be significant at p  005. differences between univariate data sets bacterial diversity abun- dance of certain taxa faecal metabolite concentration rel- ative dispersion derived from different dietary treatment groups were evaluated using welch's t-test welch 1947 and considered to be significant at p  005. correlations between faecal microbiota and metabolites were com- puted on normalized variables by the mean and standarddeviation across all pigs.

e-mail 20171443 received 24 july 2017 revised 12september 2017 and accepted 17 september2017doi10.1111jam.13595abstractaims the present study aimed to compare the microbiota composition from pigs fed different cereal grain types either rye or triticale as sole energy source.methods and results ileal digesta and faeces were sampled from eight pigs of each experiment.

2013. previously a missing detection of faecal butyrate concentration was reviewed to occur due to colonic uptake during an extended transit time topping and clifton 2001. in a human study on the relationship between faecal scfas concentrations and colonic scfas absorption faecal acetate showed an inverse relation to acetate absorption.

interestingly the prediction analysis of functional faecal profiles sug- gested slight increased butanoate metabolism of the microbiota by triticale including the biomarker genes but and buk for butyrate-producing communities vital et al.

furthermore rye pro- moted the relative abundance of prevotella lactobacillus bifidobacterium and olsenella while the relative abun- dance of turicibacter clostridium xi and sarcina was clo- sely associated with feeding triticale.the faecal abundance of bifidobacterium and prevotella showed to be increased fivefold and 25-fold in faeces of pigs fed diets with rye and triticale respectively.

2005. similar to these findings the rye-based treatment of this study here yielded higher faecal concentrations of butyrate when compared to faeces from pigs fed triticale.

2011. additionally to human microbiota a high abundance of oscillibacter in the faeces of pigs has also been suggested to be important for porcine health.both feeding treatments showed a positive correlation between the faecal abundance of olsenella and erysipelo- trichaceae incertae sedis which might be explained by an interaction between the families coriobacteriaceae that includes olsenella genus and erysipelotrichaceae as described in a study on diet-microbiota-host interactionsin hamsters martinez et al.

the butanoate metabolism ko00650 was predicted to be slightly promoted by triticale 111-fold.temporal variations among microbiotain the present study the effect of diet composition on gut microbiota was studied in pigs with 12 weeks of age over a period of 8 weeks.

