the assumption may be further verified byusing germ-free mice which supplies an ideal model to study the synergistic effects of e. coli lps and p. gingivalis lps.conclusionin periodontitis hypoxia is a propelling factor of p. gingivalis lps in activating caspase-1 cascade.

it was concluded that e. coli lps induced a hypoxic phase which is a combing pathological factor of p. gingivalis lps in caspase-1 activating and il-1b maturation in periodontal inflammation.keywords porphyromonas gingivalis escherichia coli hypoxia caspase-1 il-1bintroductionperiodontitis is defined as chronic inflammation of tooth supporting tissues.

the hypoxic environment usually accompanying inflammation is a potential pathological factor in itself eltzschig and carmeliet 2011. although clinical evidence and research support p. gingivalis as a key periodontal pathogen we speculated that hypoxia can be involved in periodontal cell death process.the synergistic effects of lps and hypoxia activated caspase cascade in human gingival fibroblaststhere is a longstanding paradox that p. gingivalis lps reveals low inflammatory potency though it is the keystone pathogen.the paradox might be explained by the synergistic infection of p. gingivalis and commensal microbial community darveau et al.

however e. coli lps also increased il-1b and thus induced hypoxia in the gingiva in a chronic process.hypoxia and p. gingivalis lps has synergistic effects in periodontitisas an anaerobe p. gingivalis scarcely survives under normorxia.

the aim of this study is to investigate the effect of porphyromonas gingivalis p. gingivalis lipopolysaccharides lps and escherichia coli e. coli lps in inducing caspase-1 activation in normoxic or hypoxic phases.

together the results in mouse in vivo and in vitro models confirmed that e. coli lps induced hypoxic phase which subsequently participated in the caspase-1 activation and mature il-1b generation.discussioncaspase-1 was engaged in the inflammatory process of periodontitiswhen infection initiates nod-like receptors nlrs are able to assemble a multiprotein complex inflammasome which activated caspase-1 and even induced pyroptotic vande walle and lamkanfi 2016. some studies have provided clues that inflammasome and caspase-1 be involved in the initiation and progression of periodontitis.

the results also suggested that gram-negative microbiota may prepare a favorable environment for p. gingivalis and helped to propel caspase-1 activation.in the experimental periodontitis model nlrp3 and il- 1b were also enhanced similar to the results of human periodontitis specimen figure 4b.

moreover e. coli lps turned normoxia into hypoxia phase in experimental periodontitis model which may subsequently propel the inflammatory effect of p. gingivalis lps.

surprisingly hypoxia reversed the effects of p. gingivalis lps highly promoted caspase-1 activation and il-1b maturation.

however under moderate hypoxia 2 o2 p. gingivalis lps enhanced nlrp3 expression cleaved- caspase-1 and mature il-1b figure 2. further the protein level of pro-il-1b was increased figure 2 suggesting a nf-kb transcriptional activity.

furthermore hypoxia reversed the effect of p. gingivalis on nlrp3 caspase-1 activation and production of mature il-1b in vitro.

different from p. gingivalis lps e. coli lps enhanced il-1b maturation both in normoxia and hypoxia.

2011. however a 10-specie subgingival biofilm model including p. gingivalis down-regulate nlrp3 and il-1b expressions in gingival fibroblasts partly because of p. gingivalis belibasakis et al.

doi trindade f. oppenheim f. g. helmerhorst e. j. amado f. gomes p. s. and vitorino r. 2014. uncovering the molecular networks in periodontitis.

2017. in periodontitis the periodontopathic pathogen a. actinomycetemcomitans has been involved in caspase-1 activation and secretion of il- 1b and il-18 in the monocytesmacrophages johansson 2011. previous studies have shown that supragingival biofilm enhanced caspase-1 activity il-1b and il-18 gene expressions in gingival fibroblasts bostanci et al.

