after 24 h-treatment no significant changes of the mitochondrial metabolic activity were depicted in cells treated with lps concentrations ranging 1e10 mgml a. moreover both lps dose-dependently increased the secretion of il- 6 b and mcp-1 c. given that p. gingivalis lps used at 10 mgml significantly elevated il-6 release this concentration was selected for the following experiments in accordance with litera- ture data .effect of lps from p. gingivalis and e. coli on insulin-mediated lipid accumulation and the expression of genes encoding pparg and fas adipogenic markersto evaluate lps effect on insulin-mediated lipid storage 3t3-l1 adipocytes differentiated in the presence of insulin were exposed or not to p. gingivalis or e. coli lps.

also lps from both bacterial strains did not affect the expression of the gene encoding pparg transcription factor c. interestingly only p. gingivalis lps induced an increase in mrna levels of fas d.effect of lps from p. gingivalis and e. coli on the secretion of adiponectin leptin resistin il-6 and mcp-1 adipokinesonly p. gingivalis lps reduced the release of adiponectin recog- nized as an anti-inflammatory factor with levels inversely corre- lated with body fat mass a. however both lps stimulated the secretion of leptin reported to positively correlate with fat storage and chronic inflammation b. similarly both lps up- regulated the production of resistin c il-6 d and mcp-1 e established as pro-inflammatory mediators that impair insulin sensitivity.

gingivalis lps.effect of lps from p. gingivalis and e. coli on ros production and the expression of genes encoding enzymes involved in redox status regulationwe tested the impact of p. gingivalis and e. coli lps on adipocyte redox markers.

significant differences were considered for p values inferior to 0.05.table 1primers used for rt-qpcr analysis.resultsdose-dependent effect of lps from p. gingivalis and e. coli on cell viability and pro-inflammatory adipokine secretionto assess the possible action of lps on the viability of 3t3-l1 cells dose-dependent effects of p. gingivalis and e. coli lps were evaluated through mtt assay.

p  0.05  p  0.01  p  0.001 as compared to control  p  0.05  p  0.01 as compared to e. coli lps.involved in the elimination of h2o2 during oxidative stress e. importantly the deleterious effect of p. gingivalis lps on nox2 nox4 and catalase gene expression was significantly more pro- nounced than that mediated by e. coli lps suggesting a differential impact of both lps on redox homeostasis alteration in adipocytes.discussionthe present study compared the effect of lps from p. gingivalis and e. coli on inflammatory adipokine secretion and redox status of 3t3-l1 adipocytes.

to our best knowledge this study provides the first evidence for p. gingivalis lps capacity to alter adipocyte production of major factors such as fas leptin and resistin known to contribute to insulin resistance.additionally we found that p. gingivalis lps-treated adipocytes exhibited a raised production of il-6 and mcp-1 pro-inflammatory adipokines.

gingivalis and e. coli lps led to an increase in mrna levels of nox2 and nox4 genes although the impact of p. gingivalis lps was significantly more pronounced.

gingivalis lps-treated adipocytes.conclusionsthis study demonstrates the ability of p. gingivalis lps to pro- mote a pro-inflammatory adipokine secretory profile in adipocytes.

eporphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharide inducespro-inflammatory adipokine secretion and oxidative stress by regulating toll-like receptor-mediated signaling pathways and redox enzymes in adipocytesfanny le sage   olivier meilhac    marie-paule gonthier   a inserm umr 1188 diab'ete atherothrombose therapies reunion ocean indien detroi plateforme cyroi sainte-clotilde f-97490 franceb universite de la reunion umr 1188 sainte-clotilde f-97490 francec chu de la reunion saint-denis f-97400 francea r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 9 august 2016 received in revised form 13 february 2017accepted 13 february 2017available online 20 february 2017keywords adipocyte lipopolysaccharide toll-like receptor adipokine inflammation oxidative stressa b s t r a c t gut microbiota lps contributes to obesity-related chronic inflammation and oxidative stress promoting insulin resistance.

this study compared the effect of lps from p. gingivalis periodontopathogen and e. coli enterobacteria on inflammatory adipokine secretion and redox status of 3t3-l1 adipocytes.

moreover p. gingivalis lps reduced adiponectin secretion.

p. gingivalis lps altered catalase gene expression.

in this regard a particular attention has been paid to porphyromonas gingivalis recognized as a repre-sentative periodontopathogen .

reported that oral administration of p. gingivalis in mice in- duces metabolic changes associated with insulin resistance and systemic inflammation.

gingivalis might participate in the pathogenesis of human abdominal aortic aneurysm by neutrophil activation .

