additionally tha- natomicrobiome studies launched by javan in 2014profiles the microbial communities in internal organs of decaying corpses has demonstrated that microbial diversity is analogous among organsfrom the same corpse but very dissimilar among corpses primarily due to pmi.our previous gravesoil studies has shown that there are suc- cessional differences in microbial diversity at shorter time-scales.

epostmortem microbial communities in burial soil layers of skeletonized humanstorri b. thomas   sheree j. finley   jeremy e. wilkinson  daniel j. wescott azriel gorski  gulnaz t. javan  a forensic science program physical sciences department alabama state university montgomery al 36104 united statesb ph.d. program in microbiology department of biological sciences alabama state university montgomery al 36104 united statesc research and testing laboratory lubbock tx 79407 united statesd forensic anthropology center at texas state department of anthropology texas state university san marcos tx 78666 united statesa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 10 february 2017 received in revised form 17 march 2017accepted 1 may 2017available online 3 may 2017keywords microbial diversity burial soilhuman decomposition16s rrna gene amplicon sequencing acidobacteriaa b s t r a c t microorganisms are major ecological participants in the successional decomposition of vertebrates.

although soil appears to be an inert lifeless material one gram of soil may contain up to eight billion microbial cells.recent discoveries in a gravesoil study have revealed that the soil microbial communities that are responsible for putrefaction demonstrated a decrease in acidobacteria and an increase in firmicutes during early stages of decomposition.

the microbial diversity of decomposing bodies starts to resemble soil microbial communities as the corpses advance to the skeletonized stage.

the microbial com- munity signatures were based on the 30 most abundant microbial taxa grouped by soil treatments buried remains versus empty burial plots .

the microbial diversity results of the three different microcosms grouped by layers in the soil cores bottom middle and top from treated and untreated soil samples were determined based on the top 30 microbial taxa .

journal of forensic and legal medicine 49 2017 43e4949corpses at shorter pmis that revealed striking patterns of microbial succession.future studies are necessary to characterize the mi- crobes prior to 420 days to determine the timeframe of the decline of thanatomicrobiome- andor necrobiome-related microbial suc- cession.

the relative abundance or the scarcity of certain microbial taxa in gravesoil has the potential to determine the ecological status of skeletons.

in the current study we hypothesized that i. soil microbial diversity is disparate in the latter stage of decomposition skeletonization compared to the earlier stages fresh bloat active and advanced decay and ii.

the three layers of gravesoil top middle and bottom encompass similar microbial taxa and are analogous with control soil.

to test these hypotheses microbial communities in layers of burial soil of skeletonized bodies treated and from control soil obtained from burial plots with no bodies untreated were compared using sequencing data of the 16s rrna gene.

the results demonstrated that acidobacteria was confirmed as the most abundant microbial genus in all treated and untreated soil layers.

also these results determined that soil microbial signatures were analogous in all three soil layers under the effects of similar abiotic and biotic factors and they were similar to the communities in untreated soil.

therefore the current study produced empirical data that give conclusive evidence of soil microbial successional changes particularly for proteobacteria for potential use in forensic microbiology research.c 2017 elsevier ltd and faculty of forensic and legal medicine.

all rights reserved.burial soil is full of microbial life.

