Upon reduction the radical SAM 4Fe-4S1 cluster transfers one electron to SAM which results in its reductive fragmentationand usually in the generation of the 5'-deoxyadenosyl radical 5'-dA although this species has not been characterized.

To probe further the sequence and structuralrelationships between these enzymes we performed a phylogenetic analysis that included all the known radical SAM epimerases and key representative members from the radical SAM superfamily of enzymes 4a.

a Molecular phylogenetic analysis of radical SAM epimerases and representative members of the radical SAM enzyme superfamily.

44 109-115 2016.Vey J. L.  Drennan C. L. Structural insights into radical generation by the radical SAM superfamily.

Why nature uses radical SAM enzymes so widely electron nuclear double resonance studies of lysine 23-aminomutase show the 5'-dAdo 'free radical' is never free.

However it does not possess significant homology with any known radical SAM enzyme.Radical SAM enzymes are emerging as a novel superfamily of enzymes that catalyse a broad range of radical-based reactions many of which having no precedent in biology.

Altogether these results support that YydG uses one molecule of SAM to epimerize one amino acid residue through a radical-based mechanism.YydG defines a novel type of radical SAM epimerases present within the human microbiome.

Additional studies have shown that the activity of a mutated SP lyase could be rescued by precisely positioning a cysteine residue within the enzyme active site.NATURE CHEMISTRY  VOL 9  JULY 2017  703FeSSFeSFe21Radical SAM clusterNH2FeSH2OH OH SAM2SFeFeSFeSSFeNH2OH OH5'-dAL-IleNCHOCys223D-allo-IleHNCHO2SFe2SFeFeSFeSFeSFeSSPASMclusterSFeSFeHS3Cys223Cys223SFeSCys223Figure 5  Proposed mechanism of the radical SAM peptide epimerase YydG.

37 it has been proposed that the reduction of the thiyl radical involves a remote cysteine and the formation of a disulfide anion radical similar to ribonucleotide reductase.

The proximity of a 4Fe-4S cluster with a thiyl radical is reminiscent of ferredoxinthioredoxin reductaseand het- erodisulfide reductases for which spectroscopic and structural studies have indicated that the function of a 4Fe-4S2 cluster is to stabilize a thiyl radical which leads to the formation of a pentacoor- dinated iron with unique properties.

