extensive studies have been conducted across the globe focusing on the influence of microbiome in chronic diseases like asthma chronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd inflammatory bowel disease obesity diabetes and cardiovascular diseases -.

that potentially pathogenic microorganisms other than p. aeruginosa can be the cause of exacerbations in copd and hence antibiotic treatments against the activity of other pathogens need to be considered while treating copd .in addition to microbial profiling a study by lee et al.

like asthma the role of the microbiome in copd was first shown by hilty et al.

summarizes the microbial taxa and factors found to be associated with microbial dysbiosis in copd subjects.although adequate research has been carried out in copd as compared to asthma these studies also lack consistency in the results.

it is worth conducting such studies on a heterogeneous population with different ethnicity heterogeneous diet lifestyle and climaticgeographic variation.most of the studies on asthma and copd in this review lack extensive and longitudinal sampling with inadequate metadata collection.

although advancements have been made regarding descrip- tions of the main characteristics of chronic airway diseases much is still to be explored about the factors associated with changes in the microbiome and the relevance of these changes in host-specific pathogenesis of the disease .in this review we discuss microbiome studies on chronic airway diseases like asthma and copd to understand how hdss can aid in human microbiome research.

together with a disease condition temporal studies considering these factors will help in better understanding of changes in microbial communities in asthma and copd.

identified pathogenic genus haemophilus and moraxella in copd which could not be detected previously by culture-dependent approach .erb-downward et al.

although many studies including a study by hilty et al.

studies have shown that exacerbations of copd are associated with changes in the microbiome with an increase in specific taxa which are related to typical copd pathogens and decrease in microbes that contribute to compositional and functional homeostasis -.

along with longitudinal studies and inclusion of com- prehensive metadata studies on genetically related and unrelated populations are also essential in these diseases as genetic factors have also shown to play a role in the development of copd .

copd 2012 112125-32. doenocson a dickens ap jordan r fitzmaurice d adab p. the birmingham chronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd cohort study preliminary baseline characteristics of ever-smokers and never-smokers.

hdss provides an appropriate sample frame as the population covered under hdss is longitudinally followed up and information on aspects like age gender and other sociodemographic characters is readily avail- able .microbiome research on chronic diseases with known genetic basis requires comparison within and between distincttable 2  list of microbiome studies conducted in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd population.homogenous populations.

canadian cohort obstructive lung disease cancold fulfilling the need for longitudinal observational studies in copd.

in this review we highlight opportunities and limitations in microbiome research with the help of studies conducted on chronic airway diseases like asthma and copd.

