in conjugation experiments performed both in vitro and in cheese the transfer of erythromycin resistance between leuconostoc mesenteroides and enterococcus faecalis was detected.while antibiotic resistant pathogens portray a straight threat to human and animal health due to difficulties of their uproot- ing  resistance among commensal bacteria constitutes an indirect hazard as being a reservoir of antibiotic resistance genes that can be shifted to pathogens via hgt.

although no evidence for the clonal spread of esblpampc-producing e. coli fromfarm animals or foods to humans was found esblpampc- producing e. coli with same resistance genes and plasmids were present in farm animals foods and humans suggesting hgt as a prevalent mechanism for the dissemination of antibiotic resistance genes.diet-driven convergence in gut microbiome functions has been investigated with 33 mammalian species and 18 humans .

indeed we currently witness a tremendous increase in human diseases that have a substantial gut micro- biome component.the gut microbiota is very dynamic and on the evolutionary scale responds almost immediately via hgt mechanisms to various selective pressures imposed which is well exempli- fied by the recent history of antibiotic use which resulted in the widespread antibiotic resistance .

from the safety standpoint it is necessary to distinguish between the intrinsic resistance which may constitute a normal physiology and metabolism for example inability of an antibiotic to enter the cell because of a particular cell wall structure or formation of a thick capsule and the transferable antibiotic resistance genes .

to deal with this problem rosander et al.removed antibiotic resistance gene-carrying plasmids from the commercial strain of l. reuteri atcc 55730. besides the antibiotic resistance genes the danger of amplification of which is well recognized other factors of concern could be tox- ins and virulence factors.

more recently a hypothesis that the animal gut is a melting pot for hgt has been summarized in two mini-reviews that surveyed hgt events in the mammalian gut and the role of hgt in the long-term adaptation of microbes to the intestinal milieu  .

researchers from the same group have shown that cells from acute myeloid leukemia contain bacterial sequences that are present in the microbiome .based on the above information on hgt in eukaryotes  and among the other domains the following is the hypothesis on the potential involvement of hgt in human chronic disease autoimmune diseases being an example.can hgt play a role in autoimmune diseaseautoimmune diseases have both genetic and environmental components.

antibiotic-susceptible commensal bacteria may acquire resistance to antibiotics via mutations in target genes or the acquirement of resistance genes by hgt mainly by the trans- fer mediated by mges.

this is complemented by a potential contribution of changing dietary and lifestyle habits to hgt.one of the well-documented hgt events that the mankind has experienced in its history is the consequence of the rampant usage of antibiotics which resulted in the widespread dis- semination of antibiotic resistance genes among many bacteria .

the role of bacteriophages plasmids conjugative transposons and integrons in transfer of genes by pathogenic human enteric pathobionts and subsequent acquisition of pathogenicity also pointed to hgt as an impor- tant step in the expansion of virulence traits and antibiotic resistance -.

mge-mediated transfer of genetic cargo from one organism to another greatly contributes to the dissemination of antibiotic resistance genes because it can take place between closely or non-related species and in diversified environments including the animal and human gut -.notably the taxonomically distant prokaryotes of intestinal microbiome may share reservoir of closely related antimicrobial resistance genes .

would the ingestion of probiotic cultures which may act as donors or recipients therefore increase the antibiotic resistance gene pool in the enteric ecosystem some authors suggest that there is a gene flux from gram-positive cocci such as enterococci or streptococci to gram-negative bacteria with genes encoding for streptogramin resistance as an example .

being lactic acid producing bacteria they contain plasmids con- taining genes conferring resistance to tetracycline erythromycinchloramphenicol lincosamide macrolides streptomycin and streptogramins .leuconostoc and pediococcus species can serve as recipients for the broad host range antibiotic resistance plasmids from lactococcus species .

more so existence of ancient and possibly recent transfers of antibiotic resistance genes from antibiotic- producing actinobacteria to pathogenic proteobacteria was lately described .the in vivo gut luminal milieu may encourage the transfer incidence and enhance the steady inheritance of mges even in the lack of the antibiotic influence  .

thus the mge-mediated transfer of antibiotic resistance genes is a more prevalent mechanism than the clonal dissemina- tion of antibiotic resistance.synthetic biology productssynthetic biology tends to understand reorganize and control biological constituents to make functional units.

