We decided not to apply any sequence assembly strategy to the reads although this has been found as beneficial for functional annotation efficiency and would have led to a slight increase in peptide identifications data not shown as it would have dramatically reduced the dynamic range of MG counts unless using really com- plex and computationally demanding co-assembly strat- egies Concerning functional annotation we adopted the same strategy recently applied on human and mouse GM datasets upon critical evaluations We acknow- ledge that the global functional annotation yield of MG reads presented here is rather low although the presence of a considerable amount of unknown and poorly anno- tated functions is a known issue in metaproteomics.

2002683401-7.Tanca A Manghina V Fraumene C Palomba A Abbondio M Deligios M Silverman M Uzzau S. Metaproteogenomics reveals taxonomic and functional changes between cecal and fecal microbiota in mouse.

20127 e49138.Pilia G Chen WM Scuteri A Orru M Albai G Dei M Lai S Usala G Lai M Loi P et al.

2014631275-83.Takahashi K Nishida A Fujimoto T Fujii M Shioya M Imaeda H Inatomi O Bamba S Sugimoto M Andoh A.

20153 e1029.Kanehisa M Sato Y Kawashima M Furumichi M Tanabe M. KEGG as a reference resource for gene and protein annotation.

201561298.Gosalbes MJ Durban A Pignatelli M Abellan JJ Jimenez-Hernandez N Perez-Cobas AE Latorre A Moya A. Metatranscriptomic approach to analyze the functional human gut microbiota.

Bacterial chaperonin overexpression is hypothe- sized to be required when bacterial communities evolve under a strong genetic drift According to the eco- logical model proposed by Schloissnig and colleagues this is the case of the human gut microbiome where a large selection of bacterial population members is sub- jected to community shifts during the different stage of the individual host life and therefore their extinction might be rescued in the presence of abundant chaperonins 4.Carbohydrate metabolism was proved in earlier works as the most represented COG category in the human gut metaproteome highlighting its functional relevance in the host-microbiota interplay  .

Globally speaking MG data exhibited a larger depth of information compared to MP both in taxonomic and functional terms as expected and previously reported Potential and active functions in the gut microbiotaA preliminary unsupervised multivariate analysis revealed a much clearer separation between MG and MP patterns based on functional data when compared to taxonomic data Additional file Figure S1.

OH hydroxy GAPDH glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase 6P-5DH-2DO-gluconate 6-phospho-5-dehydro-2-deoxy-D-gluconate PEPCK phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase U-5CMAM modifier uridine 5-carboxymethylaminomethyl modification enzyme 2MT-N6-DMAA 2-methylthio-N6-dimethylallyladenosine 1DO-xylulose-5P 1-deoxy-D-xylulose-5-phosphate CF coupling factorany KOG functional annotation we performed an add- itional differential analysis simply considering the gene protein name as functional information.

Our data suggest that caution should be used before drawing conclusions on the actual GM functional activity based on metagenomic data and support MP as a valuable approach to investigate the functional role of the GM in health and disease.MethodsSamplesStool samples were collected from 15 healthy Sardinian volunteers 8 females and 7 males from the SardiNIA cohort population.

