the similar articles cited by functions in pubmed and references for key studies were used for finding more articles.group 1group 2group 3group 4group 5group 6intestinal bowel disease crohn's disease ulcerative colitis inflammatory bowel diseases chronic inflammatory diseasesifx infliximablifestyle factor life style factors diet dietary nutrients dairy dietary pattern food meat intake fibre intake vitamins highsalt diettumour necrosis factor tnf anti-tnf treatment response treatment outcome treatment result treatment efficacy drug infliximab ifx personalised medicine personalized medicinesulphate-reducing bacteria mucolytic bacteriamucosa-associated bacteriaepithelium-associated bacteriametabolomics prospectiveresultsenvironmental factors in ibdwhen assessing the effect of lifestyle factors on disease risk prospective studies are preferred over case-control or cross sectional studies in order to avoid recall bias and bias introduced by lifestyle changes due to the disease itself.

sodium chloride was found to induce th17 cells characterized by up-regulation of tnf-a .what is already known on impact of diet on gut inflammatory mechanismsdiet is considered to affect gut inflammatory pathways in various ways table .table 2. previously suggested mechanisms whereby various diets may affect gut inflammation and potentially anti-tnf treatment responsefood sourcenutrientpotential mechanismsreferenceprotein fermentationnh3 and h2s  mucosal toxicityyao 2016aa pathway  pro- and anti-inflammatory prostaglandins and leukotrienesepa and dha  altered cell membrane phospholipidfishmarine n-3 pufafatty acid composition disruption of lipid rafts inhibition of pro-inflammatory nfkb activation of anti-inflammatory pparg binding to gpr120calder 2015signalling  regulation of innate and adaptive vitamin d125 d vitaminimmune response decrease tnf-a secretion in animalmodels regulation of antimicrobial peptideskamen 2010vegetables fruit cereals legumesfibremicrobial degradation  scfa  fuel for enterocytes regulation of gprs and mapks epigenetic regulation of gene transcription by inhibition of hdacs decrease tnf-a secretion in animal modelsvinolo 2011scfa short chain fatty acids gprs g protein-coupled receptors mapks mitogen-activated protein kinases hdacs histone deacetylases aa arachidonic acid pufa polyunsaturated fatty acids epa eicosapentaenoic acid dha docosahexaenoic acid nf-kb nuclear factor-kappa b pparg peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gfor example dietary fat from meat such as n-6 pufa may give rise to arachidonic acid that may be incorporated in the cell membrane and metabolised to pro- and anti-inflammatory eicosanoidsprostaglandins and leukotrienes .

these studies have investigated the involvement of dietary factors such as dietary patterns vitamin d dietary fibre zinc dairy products n-3 and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids pufa and protein particularly animal protein in ibd development -.

inflammatory pathways of importance for management of inflammatory bowel disease.

reviewpotential impact of diet on treatment effect from anti-tnf drugs in inflammatory bowel diseasevibeke andersen 12 axel kornerup hansen 3 and berit lilienthal heitmann 456focused research unit for molecular diagnostic and clinical research irs-centre sonderjylland hospital of southern jutland abenra 6200 denmarkinstitute of molecular medicine university of southern denmark odense 5000 denmarkdepartment of veterinary and animal sciences university of copenhagen frederiksberg 1871 denmark research unit for dietary studies parker institute frederiksberg 2000 denmarksection for general medicine department of public health university of copenhagen copenhagen 1353 denmarknational institute of public health university of southern denmark odense 5000 denmarkcorrespondence vandersenhealth.sdu.dk tel.

45-2115-7790received 8 february 2017 accepted 10 march 2017 published 15 march 2017abstract we wanted to investigate the current knowledge on the impact of diet on anti-tnf response in inflammatory bowel diseases ibd to identify dietary factors that warrant further investigations in relation to anti-tnf treatment response and finally to discuss potential strategies for such investigations.

further studies using hypothesis-driven and data-driven strategies in prospective observational animal and interventional studies are warranted.keywords lifestyle factors chronic inflammatory diseases treatment result treatment response diet meat intake dietary pattern food mucosa associated bacteria epithelium-associated bacteria microbiome fibre intake personalized medicine mucus sulphate-reducing bacteria mucin-degrading bacteria western style diet anti-tnfintroductioninflammatory bowel diseases ibd including crohn's disease cd and ulcerative colitis uc are chronic lifelong illnesses of early onset that substantially affect the life quality of the patients and their families -.

digestion 2008 77 57-64.  opstelten j. leenders m. dik v. chan s. van schaik f. siersema p. bueno-de-mesquita b. hart a. oldenburg b. dairy products dietary calcium and the risk of inflammatory bowel disease results from a european prospective cohort investigation.

review article evidence-based dietary advice for patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

the inadequate response to conventional therapy in a large portion of patients and the advances in understanding thenutrients 2017 9 286 doi10.3390nu9030286role of the inflammatory pathways in ibd  has led to the development of bioengineered therapeutic agents targeting key pro-inflammatory molecules.

the authors reported that 26 out of the 38 patients with inflammatory disease who responded to anti-tnf therapy at week 16 as opposed to 12 out of the 37 of the non-responders had received concomitant ed treatment p  0.0026.likewise kamata et al.

the authors suggested that the reduction in inflammation might be brought about at least in part by the mfibre-induced decrease in inflammatory cytokines including tnf-a increase in il-10 and relative increase in t-regulatory cells in the mesenteric lymph nodes.high salt diet may promote colitismice that received high salt diet 4 developed a more severe colitis than controls when exposed to trinitrobenzene-sulfonic acid tnbs or dss .

the regulation of g protein-coupled receptors gpcrs and mitogen-activated protein kinases mapks that are of importance for inflammatory processes and epigenetic regulation of gene transcription by inhibition of histone deacetylases hdacs .

our results suggest that ibd patients with genetic variants associated with high tnf inflammatory response were more likely to respond to anti-tnf treatment whereas ibd patients with genetic variants associated with high il-1b il-6 or infg were more likely to be non-responders .

inflammatory bowel disease cause and immunobiology.

