chip-seq data is similar to rna-seq data involving quantifying the data as read count per peak instead of per gene.

however the complexity of power computations is much greater for sequencing data than for the simpler genotyping array data.

most importantly we review the methods of power analysis for several types of sequencing data and guide the reader to the relevant methods for each data type.key words high-throughput sequencing power sample sizeintroductionrecent advancement in high-throughput sequencing hts technology has stimulated a range of new possibilities for bio- medical research.

at the same time these advances have intro- duced a series of bioinformatics challenges including quality control data storage and complexity in data analyses.

in hts other factorspffipffiffi0ffiffidffiffi1ffiffiffiffi-ffiffiffiffiffipffiffi0ffiffiffithffiffiffiffinffiffi1-a2pffipffiffi0ffiffidffiffi1ffiffiffiffi-ffiffiffiffiffipffiffi0ffiffiffithffiffiffiffinffiffi1-a2unique to hts data such as sequencing depth and dispersion play significant roles in determining the true power adding an unfamil- iar layer of complexity to the analysis.it is vital to not let the excitement and challenges of hts data overshadow the importance of power analysis.

currently those are the only two available methods that can assess power for tests of differential expression from rna-seq data based on a poisson model.negative binomial modelit has been repeatedly shown that rna-seq data exhibit an overdispersed read count distribution   which means that the variance of sequence counts exceeds the mean.

microbiome data are commonly modeled with a multinomial distribution because the abundance of each microbe is represented as a percentage of the total reads and the sum of the total microbe abundance within a sample is 1. the probability mass function of the multinomial distribution for microbiome data can be described as followscounts is more appropriately modeled by a poisson-lognormalfdx  ...  x  p  ...  p th 14 n pjpxi distribution.

combined with the complex format of hts data and the distinct statistical assumption behind the differ- ent types of hts data analysis the power analysis for hts- based experiments has been a challenging problem.

615-445-0018 fax 615-936-2602 e-mail abstractpowersample size power analysis estimates the likelihood of successfully finding the statistical significance in a data set.

power analysis is often one of the overlooked aspects of hts data analysis.power calculation is the first step in designing a successful study.

his research is focused on genomic and epigenomic data analysis.

each type of sequencing is designed to examine a completely different problem and often the data follow distinctly different distributions thus requiring a specific strategy for com-puting power.

simply put the power of a study is the probability ofdetection of heterozygous variant using hts data.

however for hts extra complexity is intro- duced with sequencing depth and read dispersion which directly affect the probability of correctly identifying a variant introducing a series of additional power analysis methods that we review below.power to detect a heterozygous variantin traditional gwas snps are detected using genotyping arrays by clustering algorithms based on fluorescent intensity data.

these power analyses are based on collected snp data and do not model the process of detecting snps.

