Modulation of the metabolic activity of these bacteria might be a promising ap- proach for enhancing butyrate production and consequent pre- vention of colonic disease.The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of soluble LDCs including xylitol on butyrate production by in vitro human fecal culture and to isolate and characterize the human gut bac- teria responsible for producing butyrate from soluble LDCs so as to assess the prebiotic potential of these substances.MATERIALS AND METHODSBacterial strains and culture conditionsAnaerostipes caccae DSM 14662T A. hadrus DSM 3319T Rose- buria faecis DSM 16840T R. hominis DSM 16839T R. intestinalis DSM 14610T R. inulinivorans DSM 16841T Coprococcus catus ATCC 27761T Eubacterium hallii ATCC 27751T E. rectale ATCC 33656T Faecalibacterium prausnitzii ATCC 27768T E. limosum ATCC 8486T and Megasphaera elsdenii JCM 1772T were obtained from Ger- man Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures DSMZ Braunschweig Germany the American Type Culture Collection ATCC Rockville MD USA or the Japan Collection of Microor- ganisms JCM Tsukuba Japan.

in the human colon.Keywords butyrate prebiotics xylitol L-sorbose human fecal culture Anaerostipes spp.INTRODUCTIONThe trillions of bacteria that live in the colon considerably in- fluence on human health by producing a range of metabolic products.

All sequences ob- tained from the DGGE bands were deposited in the DDBJ nu- cleotide sequence database with accession numbers.Isolation and identification of L-sorbose- or xylitol-degrading butyrate-producing bacteriaFresh fecal samples 1 g collected from two healthy donors donors C and E 30 and 29 years old respectively who were among the donors who had donated the fecal samples for prepa- ration of the fecal cultures and had indicated high butyrate for- mation from both L-sorbose and xylitol were diluted in 9 mL of anaerobic phosphate-buffered saline in an anaerobic chamber.

The ability of various LDCs to promote butyrate production was evaluated in in vitro human fecal cultures.

The effects of oligosaccharides monosaccharides sugar alcohols and polysac- charides on butyrate formation have been investigated by in vitro human fecal culture Mortensen Holtug and Rasmussen  Rycroft et al.

By using an agar plate culture two strains of A. hadrus that produced butyrate from each substrate were isolated from the feces of two donors.Furthermore of 12 species of representative colonic butyrate producers only A. hadrus and A. caccae demonstrated augmented butyrate production from L-sorbose or xylitol.

The ability of each bacterial strain to produce butyrate from L-sorbose or xylitol was evaluated by comparing the butyrate concentration and the OD600 in PYAS or PYAX broth with those in PYA broth.Statistical analysisStatistical analyses were performed using SAS software Ver- sion 8.02 SAS Institute Cary NC USA.

In all anal- yses P values 0.05 were considered significant.RESULTSSCFAs formation in fecal culturesIn the prescreening the amounts of butyrate produced from 22 kinds of soluble LDCs were firstly evaluated in in vitro hu- man fecal cultures prepared from two healthy donors donors B and E. Four kinds of LDC D-mannitol D-sorbitol L-sorbose andTable 1.

The average ra- tios of butyrate to total SCFAs acetate  propionate  butyrate in all cultures with L-sorbose and xylitol were 49 and 54 re- spectively those with the other substrates ranged from 15 to 35.

Phenotypic and biochemical characteristics of fecal isolates were analyzed as described in supplementary Materials.Phylogenetic characterization of fecal isolatesSequences of the 16S rRNA genes of Clostridium clusters IV and XIVa including bacterial species closely related to the fecal iso- lates were retrieved from GenBankEMBLDDBJ.

