the larger quantity of calcium absorbed was likely due to the much higher calcium content of the formulas and should not be the reason to avoid breastfeeding as breastmilk has numerous benefits for infants including the ideal ratio of proteins fats vitamins and immunological factors.during the pubertal growth spurt when poor calcium intakes can negatively influence attainment of peak bone mass fructans gos and scf have been found to increase calcium absorption by 6-12 relative to control treatments in interventions ranging in length from 3 months to one year      .

scf studies in animals and humans have associated this fiber with improved calcium absorption and bone strength in rats  greater calcium absorption in adolescent boys and girls   and improved calcium retention in post- menopausal women .synbioticsthe combination of prebiotics with other bioactive ingre- dients such as probiotics live microorganisms or polyphenolic compounds is another area of greater study with regard to bone health as the combination of different products is believed to elicit a synergistic health benefit.

when calcium intake increased to 10 gkg the addition of 50 gkg of oligofructose resulted in increased calcium content of the lumbar vertebrae and greater tra- becular area and thickness but no change in trabecular number when compared to a similar calcium diet with no oligofructose.

interestingly this study also observed that approximately one-third of the study cohort did not respond to the prebiotic fiber with responders c 3 increase in calcium absorption relative to baseline expe- riencing greater skeletal calcium accretion over the 12-month study when compared to non-responders  3 change in calcium absorption and controls.

two recent studies of adolescent calcium absorption which aimed to correlate improvements in calcium absorption with changes in the gut microbiota found that scf increased bacteroides butyricicoccus oscillibacter dialister parabacteroides and clostridium  .

this results in b the production of short-chain fatty acids and c a reduction in intestinal ph.these actions are believed tod ionize calcium from negatively charged compounds in the colon thereby allowing calcium to absorb into the blood.

a summary of animal studies can be found in table .in vitro calcium availability and absorption modelsof the data currently available findings from in vitro cell models suggest that prebiotics foster cellular calcium uptake but that microbes differentially regulate this pro- cess.

conversely in a similar caco-2 cell model inoculation with a human intestinal bacterial sus- pension resulted in a decreased presence of calcium in the basolateral filtrate but greater intracellular calcium content .

a potential explanation for the blunted effect of inulin on calcium absorption in the older animals may be the tight regulation of calcium flux com- pared to that for magnesium.

for example when given similar doses of fos 50 gkg a study in young growing rats found improve- ments in calcium absorption  while another study in ovariectomized rats did not observe an effect on calcium absorption .

in the ovariectomized rats benefits to calcium absorption and retention were most consistently observed over 16 weeks when high calcium intakes 10 g kg were combined with 50 gkg oligofructose while phosphorusretentionwasgreaterwith100 gkgoligofructose through 4 weeks and 50 gkg oligofructose through 8 weeks .

the combination of short- and long- chain fructans in this study may have resulted in synergistic effects by allowing for prolonged fermentation and absorption of calcium throughout the large intestine.the dose of calcium administered may also interact to influence prebiotic effectiveness especially in states of estrogen deficiency.

oligofructose proved more effective at increasing calcium absorption and retention in ovariec- tomized rats when consuming a high-calcium diet while phosphorus absorption decreased relative to the control treatment at this intake of calcium .

the influence of calcium dose was also apparent when growing rats con- sumed 10 inulin for 40 days in conjunction with calcium intakes at 0.25 0.50 and 0.75 by weight of the diet .

findings from this study suggested that during periods of growth inulin initially increased calcium absorption at all calcium concentrations but dissipated with the 0.75 cal- cium diet by the end of the study.

