the capacity of the enzyme for converting xylan into xylooligosaccharides was evaluated and the prebiotic potential of the resultant xos mixtures demonstrated.material and methodsmaterials5 ml-hitrap qff cartridge superdextm 75 10300 gl column and low molecular weight gel filtration kit 17-0442-01 were purchased from ge healthcare chicago il usa.beechwood and birchwood xylan avicel glucose cellobiose carboxymethylcellulose nitrophenyl np substrates and coomas- sie brilliant blue r-250 were obtained from sigma-aldrich st. louis mo usa.

cultures induced with 2 and 3 xylan showed the highest extracellular endoxy- lanase activity although maximal activity was achieved two days before with 2 xylan which implies a more cost-effective enzyme production.

prebiotic effect of xylooligosaccharides produced from birchwood xylan by a novel fungal gh11 xylanasemanuel nieto-dominguez  laura i. de eugenio  maria j. york-duran  barbara rodriguez-colinas francisco j. plou  empar chenoll  ester pardo  francisco codoner  maria jesus martinez a ipsbb unit - centro de investigaciones biologicas csic ramiro de maeztu 9 28040 madrid spainb instituto de catalisis y petroleoquimica csic calle de marie curie 2 28049 madrid spainc biopolis s.l.

the enzyme was purified characterized and used to produce a mixture of xylooligosaccharides xos from birchwood xylan.

unlike cellulose hemicelluloses comprise a wide variety of polysaccha- rides among which xylan is the most abundant and has attracted great interest as raw material both for bioethanol production and as a source of value-added compounds.

however the industrial exploitation of xylan still needs to overcome the challenges derived from its structural heterogeneity and complexity.xylans are heteropolysaccharides formed by a backbone of b-14 linked xylopyranoses branched by other monosaccharides especially arabinofuranose and highly substituted with glucuronic or methyl-glucuronic acid and acetyl side-groups.

their branching degree and composition strongly depend on the xylan source.

the first type of hemicellulases cut the xylan backbone into soluble oligosaccha- rides xos which can be depolymerized to xylose by the action of b-xylosidases .

interestingly although the complete conversion of xylan into xylose is a main target for bioethanol production there is a large and growing interest in the xos themselves.

in order to satisfy this demand xos are obtained from the xylan fraction of lignocellulosic materials by physicochemical or enzy- matic methods.

the enzymatic hydrolysis of xylan is carried out by endoxylanases a broad group of glycosidases that according to the carbohydrate active enzymes database cazy  are distributed among the families gh8 gh10 gh11 gh30 gh43 and gh51.

mandels medium was supple- mented with 2 wv beechwood xylan as a carbon source and inducer of xylanolytic enzymes.

in order to compare the secretion of xylanase activity 1 and 3 xylan 1 d-glucose and 1 avicel were used as alternative inducers.

the standard reaction mixture consisted of 2.5 xylan 50 mm sodium acetate acona buffer ph 5 and the appropriate dilution of the purified enzyme or culture crude extract.

standard assays were incubated at 50 degc and centrifuged at 1200 rpm for 5 and 10 min in order to check the linearity of the activity.enzymatic activity against glucose-containing substrates was measured following the release of glucose using the glucose-tr kit spinreact vall d'en bas spain according to the manufacturer's instructions.the bca method was used to quantify proteins using bovine serum albumin bsa as standard and pierce reagents thermo sci- entific waltham ma usa following the manufacturer's instructions.endoxylanase purificationcultures were grown in 250 ml flasks with 50 ml of mandels medium and 2 beechwood xylan and harvested after 3 days.

