Studies in germ-free animals and those exposed to pathogenic microbial infections antibiotics probiotics or fecal microbiota transplantation suggest the link of gut microbiota with host cognition or AD-related pathogenesis      .Several studies have supported the theory of the occurrence of a pathway of communication between the gut and the brain modulated by gut microbiota   .

Together with the changes in the gut microbiota community diversity shown in  and the transcriptome analysis data of intestine and brain we concluded that the Ab1-42 levels in hippocampus interact the gut and microbiota although further studies are essential for substantiation.Antibiotics intervention in APPSWEPS1E9 mouse model suggests that the diversity of the gut microbiota community can regulate the host innate immunity mechanisms that impact Ab amyloidosis  .

In addition OMO administration exerted an adequate prebiotic role in regulating the composition and metabolism of gut microbiota in an overdose antibiotics-treated IBD mice model.Gut microbiota plays a major role in maintaining normal physiological functions in the host.

The modulation of gut microbiota by germ-free animals probiotics or antibiotics intervention and fecal microbiota transplantation FMT can influence the cognitive behavior of the host  .

The fecal microbiota transplantation implemented from Ab precursor protein APP transgenic mice to non-transgenic wild-type mice showed a drastically increased level of cerebral Ab levels thereby indicating a microbial involvement in the development of Ab pathology and microbiota contributes to the development of neurodegenerative diseases  .

Although the complex networks of communication between the gut microbiota and the brain are not yet fully elucidates it is clear that prebiotics strongly modulates the ecology of the microbiota.

9403. doi Gut microbiota influences the central nervous system disorders such as Alzheimer's disease AD.

16S rRNA sequencing of gut microbiota indicated that OMO administration maintains the diversity and stability of the microbial community.

In addition OMO regulated the composition and metabolism of gut microbiota in inflammatory bowel disease IBD mice model treated by overdosed antibiotics and thus showed the prebiotic potential.

Moreover gut microbiota plays a major role in neurodevelopment leading to alterations in gene expression in critical brain and intestinal regions thereby resulting in perturbation to the programming of normal cognitive behaviors.

