vulgatus appeared to dominate 2fl growth figure  its production of acetate or lactate was scarce and it is possible that other fermentation products are being produced by this bacterium figure ab.acetate production during growth on fos was more pronounced in cultures biec bibv and bi figure c. interestingly acetate was less abundant in l. acidophilus combinations including bila which is consistent with a higher abundance of l. acidophilus compared to bi.

vulgatus and e. colicell counts in 2fl without being strong 2fl consumers.an important interaction was observed during fos consumption where ba.

error bars indicate the standard error mean be acetate blue and lactate red production in the fermentations using either 2fl or fos cf relative abundance of each member of the consortium during growth in 2fl c or fos f. red l. acidophilus green e. coli purple ba.

vulgatus ec e. coli la l. acidophilus.consumption of fos was more pronounced than 2fl with several combinations of l. acidophilus and bi.

vulgatus on fos also resulted in high concentrations of lactate much more compared to growth on 2fl figure d. moreover this increased production of lactate by ba.

infantis bacteroides vulgatus escherichia coli and lactobacillus acidophilus was grown on fructooligosaccharides fos or 2t-fucosyllactose 2fl in mono- or co-culture.

this was calculated for data on growth on 2fl a or fos c. a value of 1 means no effect and legend indicate this normalized ratio bd effect of bacteria in the consortium on the growth rate of one microbe in 2fl b or fos d. arrows indicate the direction of this effect.

in general acid production was higher during growth on fos than 2fl and co-cultures of the four bacteria did not necessarily produce more acid than mono or co-cultures figure .figure 6. acetate and lactate production during growth in 2fl ab or fos cd.

vulgatus does not seem competitive in fos utilization in the presence of other species such as bi.

infantis bi ba.

infantis bi ba.

infantis ba ba.

infantis ba ba.

vulgatus was reduced several fold in their combination on 2fl figure a. additionally growth rate of ba.

vulgatus in monoculture or its combinations displayed a poor consumption of 2fl less than 50. when evaluating protein concentration we found that co-cultures of ba.

