for instance 5.75 of sequences were grouped as unclassified at phylum level and 98.24 were grouped as unclassified at the species level.nmds plots at least part of the observed differences between hma and lma samples was due to the difference in dispersion between groups where hma samples were less dispersed than lma samples according to permdisp test t  14.9 p  0.001 supplementary figure 2. a significant effect of geographic region on microbial community structure was observed pseudo- f8 523  1.5 p  0.012 as well as of the interaction between hma-lma status and geographic region pseudo-f5 523  1.7 p  0.003 and host identity pseudo-f37 523  12.2 p  0.001 table 1. it is noteworthy that the host identity explained most of the variation followed by the hma-lma status the interaction between geographic region and hma-lma status and lastly geographic region alone table 1.identification of hma and lma indicator taxathe taxa that differed in abundance between hma and lma sponges p  0.05 were inspected with phylum class and otu datasets figure 4. other taxonomic levels were not included due to the large proportion of sequences assigned to unclassified taxa 50. on the phylum level 14 phyla were significantly more abundant in hma and 19 were more abundant in lma species supplementary table 5. because these numbers included many low abundance phyla we further considered only those that differed on average0.25.

2013 easson and thacker 2014. our data supports the increasing body of evidence showing that hma sponges are associated with more diverse microbial communities than lma sponges.our analysis further shows that microbial communities associated with hma sponges are not only structurally distinct from those of lma sponges but also display smaller variation within their microbiomes than their lma counterparts.

2014 or hma easson and thacker 2014 was revisited and based on the present tem images documenting large amounts of microorganisms figure 1 e. formosus was clearly identified as an hma sponge.alpha and beta diversities in hma and lma spongesrarefaction curves indicated a broad gradient of sampling depths and number of otus 16s rrna gene sequences clustered at 97 similarity obtained for hma and lma samples supplementary figure 1. when rarefaction curves were constructed based on the otu table rarefied to 23455 sequences per sample the curves were more heterogeneous in lma than hma sponge samples.

these sponges were grouped in four clusters from which the largest two were composed of species consistently predicted as hma n  44 and lma n  74. in summary our analyses shown distinct features of the microbial communities associated with hma and lma sponges.

distance-based multivariate statistics were performed with permanova v.1.0.1 implemented in primer v. 6.1.11 primer-e uk with an alpha level of 5.statistical analysis of taxa abundances in hma and lma speciesthe detection of microbial taxa that were differentially abundant between hma and lma sponges was conducted at the host species level because analysis of microbial diversities indicated that this factor was responsible for a large part of the variation observed see table 1 and supplementary table 4. therefore microbial abundances of samples in phylum class and otu abundance matrices were averaged by sponge species.

otu0000007 otu0000004 otu0000008 that are more abundant in hma than lma sponges and can thus be considered as hma indicators figure 4. for the lma sponges we confirm the previously reported enrichment of proteobacteria blanquer et al.

the hma microbiomes were 1.4x- 1.8x richer than the lma microbiomes as measured by otu counts and the estimators chao and ace figures 2a-c. the diversity of hma microbiomes was 1.5x and 1.6x greater than lma microbiomes according shannon and pielou's evenness measures respectively while being 5.6x greater according to inverted simpson index invsimpson figures 2d-f.a clear separation between the structures of microbial communities in hma and lma samples was observed in the non-metric multidimensional scaling nmds plot figure 3. a significant proportion of variation in the community structures permanova pseudo-f1 523  5.5 p  0.002 was explained by the hma-lma status while controlling for the effects of geographic region the interaction of region and hma-lma status and the host identity table 1. as suggested by thethe effect of hma-lma status was observed when otu abundances were grouped by microbial taxonomic levels table 2. this result is particularly remarkable considering the increasing number of sequences that cannot be assigned to a given taxon when deeper classification levels are considered.

2014. the present study was aimed to compare alpha and beta diversities between hma and lma sponge samples to identify differently abundant prokaryotic taxa in hma and lma sponge species and to predict the hma-lma status of sponges by machine learning.

a total of 2322 otus were found to be differentially abundant between hma and lma groups supplementary table 6. the taxonomic classification of the most abundant otus enriched in either hma or lma sponges corresponded to the results obtained for phylum and class level figure 4c.

2014. sponge species were observed to harbor dense communities of symbiotic microorganisms in their tissues while others were found essentially devoid of microorganisms reiswig 1974. they were firstly termed bacterial sponges and non-symbiont harboring normal sponges reiswig 1981 and later the terms high microbial abundance hma and low microbial abundance lma were used hentschel et al.

2014. altogether 118 of the 135 species were consistently predicted either hma or lma sponges forming the two large clusters 1 and 4 figure 6. species that fell into clusters 2 and 3 behaved atypically with respect to the hma-lma dichotomy.

hma sponges were associated with richer and more diverse microbiomes than lma sponges as indicated by the comparison of alpha diversity metrics.

2003. bacterial densities in hma sponges are two to four orders of magnitude higher than in lma sponges hentschel et al.

the classes sar202 anaerolineae and acidimicrobiia were more abundant in hma sponges followed by pauc34f unclassified at class level acidobacteria.6 sva0725 gemm.2 deltaproteobacteria and others figure 4b and supplementary table 5. the classes alphaproteobacteria betaproteobacteria flavobacteriia planctomycetia actinobacteria and saprospirae were more abundant in lma sponges figure 4b.

despite the fact that neither the phylum cyanobacteria nor the class synechococcophycideae was enriched in either group the cyanobacterial otu0000007 was more abundant in hma sponges while the cyanobacterial otu0000002 was more abundant in lma sponges.

