studies that more preciselymeasure dietary intake particularly feeding studies or the useof a more detailed diet log to log food intake over time andphysical activity such as actigraphy will help clarify theobserved association between the gut microbiome and cog-nitive function as dietary habits and physical activity areprimary contributors to gut microbiome composition andmay assist in disentangling the often inconsistent relation-ships between these factors and cognitive outcomes.in brief summary the present study found an associationbetween the composition of the gut microbiome andgut microbiome and cognitive function705cognitive functioning in a sample of healthy older adults.

published by cambridge university press 2017. doi10.1017s1355617717000492brief communicationpreliminary evidence for an association between the composition of the gut microbiome and cognitive function in neurologically healthy older adultslisa manderino1 ian carroll2 m. andrea azcarate-peril2 amber rochette1 leslie heinberg3 christine peat4 kristine steffen5 james mitchell6 and john gunstad11department of psychological sciences kent state university kent ohio2department of cell biology and physiology and microbiome core facility unc school of medicine chapel hill north carolina 3cleveland clinic lerner college of medicine of case western reserve university bariatric and metabolic institute cleveland ohio 4center of excellence for eating disorders unc school of medicine chapel hill north carolina5department of pharmaceutical sciences college of pharmacy nursing and allied sciences north dakota state university fargo north dakota6neuropsychiatric research institute department of clinical neuroscience school of medicine and health services university of north dakotareceived october 11 2016 final revision april 7 2017 accepted may 15 2017 first published online june 23 2017abstractobjectives dysbiosis of the gut microbiome is implicated in numerous human health conditions.

such findings are similar to past work in a mouse model using a microbiome depletiontransplantation paradigm in which proportions of verrucomicrobium weregut microbiome and cognitive function703table 1. demographic information test scores and microbiome distributions of 43 community-dwelling older adultscognitive group m sd or intactimpairedtestdfp-valuep  0.05.p  0.01.rapa aerobic  rapid assessment of physical activity aerobic mmse  mini mental state exam hvlt-r  hopkins verbal learning test - revised rcft  rey-osterrieth complex figure task tmt  trail making test scwt  stroop color word test fab  frontal assessment battery fas  verbal association fluency704l.

16s rrna amplicon sequencing was done following protocols from the human microbiome project human microbiome project consortium measurescognitive test batterya brief neuropsychological test battery assessed cognitive functioning.

6.statistical analysesall microbiome data were represented as proportions of total microbiome and then centered before all analyses.

methods participants were 43 community-dwelling older adults 50-85 years that completed a brief cognitive test battery and provided stool samples for gut microbiome sequencing.

conclusions the current findings suggest that composition of the gut microbiome is associated with cognitive test performance in neurologically healthy older adults.

dysbiosis can result from host or environmental factors and has been linked to several disease conditions including inflammatory bowel disease some types of cancer obesity and metabolic disorders tilg  kaser while research on the connection between the gut microbiome and the brain i.e.

the current study sought to further explore the possible association between the composition of the gut microbiome and cognitive function in a sample of healthy older adults.methodsparticipantsa total of 43 older adults were recruited from a community recreation and wellness center 1. study participants were english-speaking and 50-85 years of age.

age education sex and remaining cognitive test scores.resultsbetween-group differences in gut microbiome compositionmann-whitney u tests using a 95 confidence interval revealed a different distribution for bacteroidetes p  .01 firmicutes p  .02 proteobacteria p  .04 and verru- comicrobia p  .003 for intact relative to impaired groups.

full interpretation of such findingsis difficult as the many factors influencing the compositionof the gut microbiome are just beginning to be understoodand very few studies have directly examined its possible linkto neurological function.

chronic inflammation has long beenviewed as a contributor to cognitive decline trollor et al.and there is some evidence that dysbiosis rather than aspecific phylum of bacteria may lead to greater inflammationtilg  kaser other possible mechanisms have also been suggested forthe link between the gut microbiome and neurocognitiveoutcomes including communication through the vagusnerve production of bacterial metabolites and enteroendo-crine signaling as reviewed by sherwin sandhu dinan cryan each of these pathways has the potential toinfluence a wide range of physiological processes within thebrain.

second the present study found across-sectional relationship between the gut microbiome andcognitive test scores but does not provide insight to possiblemechanisms or trajectories of such a relationship.

prospectivestudies that include pre-pro-biotic supplementation will shedlight on the relationship between the gut microbiome andcognitive functioning as they have been proposed as possibletherapeutics for psychiatric conditions sarkar et al.

smith s. ... gillevet p.m. 2011. linkage of gut microbiome with cognition in hepatic encephalopathy.

