A dataset of 8595385 high- quality 16S rRNA sequences n  20 patient and control fecal samples n  20 patient and control saliva samples n  10CT samples was obtained.

The results highlighted the presence of different bacterial compositions in particular the fecal samples of CRC patients seemed to be enriched with Bacteroidetes whereas in the fecal samples of healthy controls Firmicutes were one of the major phyla detected though these differences were not statistically significant.

The alpha diversity of samples from healthy patients and samples from CRC patients did not report significant differences.

CT samples exhibited a composition of bacterial communities different from that present in stool samples in CRC patients R  0.61 P  0.001.

CT samples showed the highest alpha diversity value compared to other body sites whereas the taxonomic diversity of samples from CRC and healthy patients was similar within the same body site Table S4 and Figure 3.

No significant differences between stool samples of healthy subjects and stool samples of CRC patients were observed Table S5.

Moreover neither statistically significant differences were evidenced between saliva samples of healthy and CRC subjects.However results highlighted that F. nucleatum abundance is higher in saliva than stool samples both in healthy subjects p  0.002 and in CRC patients p  0.01.NGS 16S rRNA data were then analyzed taking into account all OTUs assigned to Fusobacterium genus.

Obtained results Figure 6 confirmed qPCR data revealing that stool samples had the lowest number of reads assigned to this genus in contrast with CT samples which showed the highest number of sequences related to Fusobacterium genus.Neither NGS data were underlining differences between healthy controls and CRC patients.Distinct Taxonomic Distribution in Different Body SitesLinear discriminant analysis revealed a distinct microbial distribution in regard of sampling site Figure 7A.

In particular saliva samples were mainly enriched in membersof Actinobacteria Saccharibacteria Proteobacteria Beta class Fusobacteria Firmicutes mainly Negativicutes and Bacilli and Bacteroidetes exclusively represented by members of Flavobacteriia class and Prevotellaceae family whereas stool samples presented a characteristic distribution of Bacteroidetes in particular the Bacteroidia class and Firmicutes mainly Clostridia and Erysipelotrichia classes.

Despite the increased abundance of members of Fusobacteria in saliva samples Figure 7B biopsy samples were enriched in members of Fusobacterium genus Figure 7C.

