although these trials utilized differing doses and probiotic strains it appears that doses of 109 microbes per day are more beneficial than lower doses that combinations of probiotics may have advantages over single organisms and that probiotics are more effective in premature infants receiving human milk than formula .safety of prebiotics and probioticsthe safety of probiotics and prebiotics has been extensively reviewed.

additionally probiotics have been shown to decrease high-sensitivity c-reactive protein  a marker of inflammation associated with adverse maternal conditions such as pre-eclampsia and gestational diabetes.bacterial vaginosis is another target for probiotics with com- bined benefits of restoring the vaginal microbiota after or in place of antibiotic treatment and decreasing the vaginal ph to an opti- mum value.

one meta-analysis showed an 81 reduction in genital in- fections with oral probiotics but data were inconclusive on whether this would decrease preterm labor .

perhaps even more compelling are several meta-analyses which have shown that administration of probiotics during pregnancy prevents atopic dermatitis in children   and a large cohort study showing that probiotic lactobacilli and bifidobacteria during pregnancy decrease eczema and rhinoconjunctivitis in children .

a recent meta-analysis of these studies concluded that probiotics decrease the risk of nec and death but not sepsis  .

during pregnancy is thought to provide a protective role against ascending infections .the maternal gut microbiomethis community also changes throughout pregnancy indepen- dent of health status and diet with a decrease in individual1744-165xc 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.table 1key bacterial taxa in pregnancy and during perinatal period.diversity by the third trimester marked by an increase in proteo- bacteria and actinobacteria and a decrease in faecalibacterium spp.

mod- ulates the decrease in anti-inflammatory cytokines interleukin il- 4 and il-10 and induces a decrease in pro-inflammatory cytokines.

these prebiotic mixtures alter the fecal microbiome decrease fecal ph improve gastric motility decrease feeding intolerance and increase fecal siga .

evidence is compelling and suggests a need for practice change.for infantsprebioticso decrease symptoms of infantile colic.do not decrease the risk of nec sepsis or death in premature infants.probioticsdecrease symptoms of infant colic.decrease the risk of nec and death with consistent trends towards prevention of sepsis in premature infants.

administration of enteral prebiotics probiotics and synbiotics during pregnancy lactation and postnatal life appears to be a safe and feasible method to alter the maternal and neonatal microbiome thus improving pregnancy and neonatal outcomes.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionnovel approaches to analysis of microbial communities have provided evidence that changes in maternal fetal and neonatal microbes impact both short- and long-term outcomes.

studies linking probiotics to improved glycemic control have been mixed.

one randomized placebo- controlled study of 256 healthy women showed that dietary in- terventions plus probiotics lactobacillus rhamnosus gg and bifi- dobacterium lactis decreased postpartum waist circumference and significantly reduced the incidence of gestational diabetes from 36 dietplacebo to 13 dietprobiotic .

however another study of 175 obese women showed that a shorter four-week administration of probiotics during early third trimester of preg- nancy did not improve glycemic control .

the mixed results may be due to differences in demographics genetics or pheno- types durations of probiotic intervention or differences in pro- biotic strains or doses.as pre-eclampsia can be thought of as an excessive severe maternal generalized inflammatory reaction it is an appealing disease target for probiotics.

a more recent study showed no significant difference in the vaginal microbiota after eight weeks of probiotics starting at the end of the first trimester  however the inci- dence of bacterial vaginosis was low 2.8 in the treatment group.

