considering this the present study aimed to evaluate the preservation and reactivation of anammox consortia enriched from swine manure treat- ment lagoons by using different preservative agents at different temperatures kno3 at 4 0c glycerol -20 0c -80 0c and skimmed cow milk -20 0c -80 0c -200 0c.

considering this the present study was performed to evaluate reactivation using different preservative agents kno3 glycerol and skimmed cow milk atdifferent temperatures 4 0c 20 0c 80 0c and 200 0c afterbiomass freezing.

treatments 4e6 were performed with the addition of preservatives as described above prefreezing at -20 0c followed of lyophilization at 1 mm hg temperature from 40 0c to 20 0c for 6 days elevating 10 0c per 24 h. each tube was stored at the noted temperature.

preservation with skimmed cow milk at -80 0c favored the selection of candidatus anammoxoglobus propionicus while preservation with glycerol at -80 0c was successful for candidatus jettenia asiatica.

however storage at 4 0c was not successful for single-cell cultures of the marine anammox species candidatus scalindua .showed the presence of candidatus jettenia asiatica and candidatus anammoxoglobus propionicus species in a consortium enriched from swine manure lagoons.

candidatus kuenenia candidatus bro- cadia candidatus anammoxoglobus and candidatus jettenia have been enriched from activated sludge.

candidatus kuenenia stuttgartiensis was reac- tivated after being stored at 4 0c with glycerol   and candidatus brocadia caroliniensis was reactivated afterfreezing in liquid nitrogen and subsequent lyophilization in skim- med milk medium .

however the disadvantage is that the reactors require high control to achieve stable simul- taneous nitrification and anammox processes  .the biomass that was preserved using skimmed cow milk at 80 0c was composed of candidatus jettenia asiatica thermo- nonas diaphorobacter capable of performing simultaneous nitrification and denitrification under aerobic conditions and a low number of candidatus anammoxoglobus propionicus imme-diately after thawing.

these bacteria were the first anammox bacteria described  in wastewater treatment systems.anammox bacteria community structurein the biomass that was preserved with glycerol preservation at 80 0c we observed candidatus jettenia asiatica predominance with less than 10 candidatus anammoxoglobus propionicus .

the bacterial community from the biomass with anammox activity was characterized and showed the presence of candidatus brocadia anammox- idans candidatus jettenia asiatica and candidatus anammoxoglobus propionicus.

aswp 14 anammox sludge without preservation scm 14 skimmed cow milk.presence of diaphobacter pseudomonas and candidatus jettenia asiatica and after 90 days we observed only anammox-related microorganisms including candidatus jettenia asiatica plancto- mycete and candidatus brocadia anammoxidans with the latter as the predominant species.

to solve this problem freezing meth-retention time of 2 h dissolved oxygen of 0.2 mg l-1 and nitrogen loading rate of 1.2 gn l-1.d-1 feed with synthetic culture medium containing 100 mgn l-1 50 mgnh3-n l-1 and 50 mgno- -n l-1odologies have been studied  .several techniques have been used for the preservation of mi- crobial cultures including freezing  20 0c to 200 0c lyophili- zation or a combination of these processes .

however other studies have described successful activity recovery after 2 months using thepreservation method of storage without cryoprotectant at 4 0c .the best results were obtained when the bacteria consortium was preserved using skimmed cow milk or glycerol and stored at 80 0c.

all coefficients are related to nh3-n.reactivation time daswpskimmed cow milkskimmed cow milkglycerol -80 0cglycerol -20 0ckno3 4 0c -80 0 c-20 0c 232323232323nd 14 not detected.aswp 14 anammox sludge without preservation.bacterial community structurereactors that had anammox activity underwent bacterial community characterization after process re-establishment.

thermononas belonging to g-proteobacteria is a genus of denitrifiers that was isolated from treatment systems by performing denitrification at an optimum temperature between 28 0c and 35 0c .

