vaginalis isolates of an unknown cladeSome of the strains isolated from samples 060S1 086S1 099S1 and 108S1 did not belong to any clade detectable by clade-specific PCR although all of them were identi- fied as G. vaginalis by both their characteristic microbio- logical profile and the nucleotide sequence of their 16S rRNA coding gene RDP Clade-specific PCR identified four clades in vaginal sam- ple 099S1 Additional file but found none from known clades in three G. vaginalis isolates from the cor- responding swab Table Sample 060S1 NS 10 clade 2  clade 4 yielded 15 independent isolates 11 from clade 2 and 4 that did not belong to any of the four known clades.

The differences in G. vaginalis detection observed for various PCR primers demonstrate that the low preva- lence of G. vaginalis reported in BV-negative women might depend not only on the patient's cohorts or geo- graphicalethnic origin but also on the target sequences selected for PCR.Subtyping of the G. vaginalis present in noncultured vaginal samples by qualitative clade-specific PCR  demonstrated a significant association between multi- clade G. vaginalis communities and NS  4.

An earlier study in the USA detected clade 3 in 31.7 of the 60 samples studied and showed its as- sociation with BV-type flora While we found no clade 3 G. vaginalis strains among the isolates strains of subgroup D corresponding to clade 3 were isolated from specimens that originated from Canada n  1 and Kenya n  7  Clade 4 the most frequently found clade showed no association with BV an observation that is in agreement with previous results Our find- ing that G. vaginalis strains of clade 1 were more likely to colonize BV-positive women p  0.010 was consistent with the previous finding by Balashov and colleagues .

However quantifi- cation of microbial loads in the vaginal samples mightreveal a synergistic relationship between BV-associated bacteria and vaginal Mollicutes G. vaginalis was found to be prevalent in women with- out BV an observation in agreement with data from sev- eral patient cohorts in the USA Likewise the lack of specificity of cpn60 PCR as a test for G. vaginalis observed agrees with an earlier report However we did not find an association between false-negative results from cpn60 PCR or 23S rRNA PCR and particular G. vaginalis clades either individually or in combination.

Overall the clade assignments of these isolated strains matched the clades identified in that sample by PCR with two exceptions i clade 1 was detected in the noncultured vaginal sample 070S1 but the four isolates originated from the corresponding vaginal swab were clade 2 ii one of seven G. vaginalis isolates from sample 058S2 was clade 2 - a clade not detected in the corresponding noncultured vaginal sample.G.

However the results of clade-specific PCR of isolated G. vaginalis strains from four vaginal samples did not match any known type even though they demonstrated a specific genetic profile Table Combined these results suggest the possible existence of more than four G. vaginalis subgroups.ConclusionsThis study analysed the relevance of G. vaginalis geno- typing approach based on the detection of clade-specific genes to various clinical conditions in the vagina.

For birth control oral contraceptives were taken by 21 women IUD coils type not specified were used by 3 women and the NuvaRing was used by 1 woman.Examination of vaginal samples G. vaginalis isolation and gene-specific PCR assaysAll samples were subjected to Gram-staining and mi- croscopy to assess their Nugent score NS BV diag- nosis was also defined by the clinician and included the mandatory presence of three Amsel criteria elevated pH clue cells and fishy odour discharge  A sample was considered as BV-positive if NS ranged from 7 to 10 and at least three Amsel criteria were present A case was categorized as partial BV NS 4-6 if ir- respective of the Amsel criteria a mixture of normal or other flora with zones of typical BV flora was evident upon microscopic examination A sample wasdefined as BV-negative if NS corresponded to normal flora 0-3 and less than three of the mandatory Amsel criteria for BV were present Additional vaginal samples were collected for cultiva- tion experiments and molecular studies.

The 35 clade 4 strains tested that had been derived from 15 samples with varied NS were all negative for sld whereas G. vagi- nalis ATCC 14019 and strains of clade 1 n  13 and clade 2 n  12 were positive.G.

Indeed the prevalence of polyclonal G. vaginalis communities in the vaginal milieu once again raises the question of the mode of BV acquisition .Within the vaginal samples with single clade commu- nities n  31 clade 4 n  19 and clade 1 n  9 were most prevalent regardless of the BV status.

Multiple strains of G. vaginalis from 3 to15 were thus isolated from each swab specifically 13 isolates per swab for clade 1 9 for clade 2 15 for clade 4 and none from clade 3.

