this along with the vascular changes in the pelvic and peri- urethral districts and with the increases looseness of the pelvic ligaments favors the development of ui and pop estrogen stim- ulates the proliferation of lactobacillus reduces vaginal ph and avoids vaginal colonization of enterobacteriaceae.

however contradicting results are found in the literature another study showed that the use of vaginal estrogens is less effective to prevent rutis than antibiotic therapy.in conclusion in postmenopausal women there is a trend toward fewer utis recurrences with vaginal estrogens which was not seen with oral estrogens.

per- form a european retrospective multicentre study to compare the clinical effectiveness of bladder instillations of gag versus standardmanagement of rutis in adult women however large-scale studies are needed to underline the benefit of this therapy.conclusionsthe use of vaginal estrogen oral and vaginal probiotics cran- berry prophylaxis is backed up by growing evidence of efficacy.

evidence shows that topical estrogens normalize vaginal flora and greatly reduce the risk of utis.

oral immunostimulants vaginal vaccines and bladder instillations with hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate are newer strategies proposed to improve urinary symptoms and quality of life.

the second step is a physical examination complete pelvic examination to analyze vaginal epithelium urinary incontinence ui the presence or absence of pelvic organ prolapse pop antibiotics even at low-doses are effective in the treat- ment and prophylaxis of utis but lead to an increase antibiotic resistance in microorganisms strategies to prevent and manage utis in ageing womenseveral strategies have been proposed for preventing rutis and the first is a change in behavior.

it is reasonable to suggest to women with rutis a different contraceptive avoiding spermicides or early postcoital voiding and more liberal fluid intake to increase the fre- quency of micturition estrogens and utismenopausal estrogen withdrawal is associated with a decrease in volume of the vaginal muscles and of the muscles of the pelvic floor.

have studied the association between utis and other peculiarities of age- ing women incontinence diabetes the use of hrt with vaginal microbial flora.

their data suggest that the restoration of vaginal lactobacilli via topical estrogen in postmenopausal women with rutis could be associated with a marked reduction in utis incidence systemic estrogens are rarely a clinical option for older women.

however vaginal estrogens remain a life-long opportunity to treat vulvo-vaginal atrophy vva even at later stages in life and this is considered a viable option to prevent utis as well.

indeed a trial performed by raz and stamm and a study by eriksen show that vaginal estrogens significantly reduced the incidence of utis and the frequency of urogenital symptoms such as vva and ui.

vaginal estrogens are safe and effective however long-term adherence is an issue with most patients with high dropout rates.

the recent introduction ofospemifene an orally available selective estrogen receptor modu- lator with the indication of prevention and treatment of vva may represent a new option for those patients who are intolerant to long-term use of vaginal estrogens.

restoration of vaginal flora with lactobacilli using probiotics is an effective strategy to decrease the frequency of utis.

a recent study suggests that the administration of vaginal sup- positories containing l. crispatus gai 98332 is safe and effective in preventing rutis.

