the occurrence of symptoms during the test was significantly associated with the test result p- value 0.000 indicating that among patients with a positive result the proportion of those with symptoms 80.4 was significantly higher than among patients with negative results 40.9table 1. gender distribution and symptoms occurrence for test result of h2 exhale test employing glucose as a substratetable 2 shows the distribution of gender and occurrence of symptoms resulting from the h2 and ch4 test.

for greater uniformity in the interpretation of the results we included only the results of patients who underwent the test using glucose as a substrate excluding the results of those who took the test with lactulose as substrate.the results were reviewed and analyzed by the interpretation of the figures obtained from the excretion of h2 andor h2 and ch4 during the 2 hours that the test was performed.

methods - a total of 200 pa- tients of both sexes without age limitation were evaluated being directed to a breath test laboratory for performing the h2 test 100 patients and of exhaled h2 and ch4 100 patients due to gastrointestinal complaints most of them patients with gastrointestinal functional disorders.

results - the results indicated a significant prevalence of small intestine bacterial overgrowth in the h2 test and in the test of exhaled h2 and ch4 56 and 64 respectively in patients with gastrointestinal symptoms and higher prevalence in females.

a convenience sample which included all the results of the exhaled h2 and ch4 test held since the implementation of this breath test at the clinic for a year and a half 100 patients was used.

similarly the same number of patient test results that only performed the exhaled h2 test during that same period selected consecutively and randomly 100 patients was also evaluated.

we selected 100 results of patient tests who only performed the exhaled h2 test and 100 patient results who underwent the exhaled h2 and ch4 test in the same period.we found that the h2 and the h2 and ch4 exhalation tests were performed predominantly in women accounting for 66 and 72 of samples respectively.it was observed that 56 results 56 of exhaled h2 breath tests were positive for sibo.

we also observed the difference of the baseline value and the maximum peak of exhaled h2 which ranged between 12-85 ppm in these analyzed results.the analysis of the test results from patients who underwent the exhaled h2 and ch4 test showed that 64 patients 64 tested positive for sibo.

there was a signifi- cant association between the affirmation of both gases h2 and ch4 and gender p-value 0.020 indicating that the proportion of female patients with positive results 100 was significantlytable 2. gender distribution and symptoms occurrence for test result of h2 and ch4 exhale test employing glucose as a substratehigher than among patients with negative results 61.1. the isolated affirmation of exhaled h2 was not significantly associated with gender p-value 0.454 or with the occurrence of symptoms p-value 0.814. similarly the isolated affirmation of methane was not significantly associated with gender p-value 0.359 nor the occurrence of symptoms p-value 1.000. in cases of simultaneous affirmation of h2 and ch4 there was also no significant association with the symptoms p-value 0.735.discussionthere is a misconception that sibo is a rare clinical condi- tion that occurs only in a small number of patients with anatomic abnormalities of the proximal digestive tract or severe digestive motility disorders18.

due to the increased cost and complexity for carrying out the jejunal aspirate the gold standard for diag- nosis of the syndrome routinely the hydrogen h2 breath test has been used utilizing glucose or lactulose as substrate which is able to determine in the exhaled air the h2 concentration produced from the intestinal bacterial metabolism.

in clinical practice the most widely used method is the hydrogen h  breatha high prevalence of overgrowth was observed in patients with2test which has good sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis51521.functional gastrointestinal disorders inflammatory bowel diseasethis indirect and non-invasive test that uses glucose or lactulose asdeclared conflict of interest of all authors none disclosure of funding no funding received1 programa de graduacao faculdade de ciencias medicas de minas gerais mg brasil 2 clinica cemad belo horizonte mg brasil 3 programa de pos-graduacao faculdade de ciencias medicas de minas gerais e da faculdade de medicina da universidade federal de minas gerais mg brasil.correspondence carolina piedade martins.

for this reason there has been a recommendation to perform the test in modern equipment capable of detecting concomitantly the concentration of exhaled h2 and methane ch4 making it more sensitive and more acurate51521.

most studies point out that the diagnostic ac- curacy of the breath test using glucose is higher compared to that using lactulose20.breath tests capable of identifying exhaled gases begin with acquiring the jejunal sample baseline for the measurement of h2 andor ch4 in the exhaled air6.

the test will be considered normal if a significant increase in h2 andor ch4 concentration does not occur in the expired air less than 12 ppm increase over the baseline value.

it is intended to infer whether in fact the tests on devices able to detect both gases in exhaled air h2 and ch4 are cost-effective and necessary for the diagnosis of sibo.methodsa retrospective observational study was made that evaluated the data and the results of breath tests using h2 or h2 and ch4 performed in a breath test laboratory in belo horizonte cemad.

