results a total of 126 children 71 males 56 with a mean sd age of 33 9 months completed the study 66 in group a and 60 in group b. at intention to treat analysis the proportion of children presenting 1 cid was 60 in group a vs. 83 in group b corresponding to an absolute risk difference ard of -23 95 ci -37 to -9 p  0.01. at per-protocol-analysis ppa the proportion of children presenting 1 cid was 18 in group a vs. 40 in group b corresponding to an absolute risk difference ard of -22 95 ci -37 to -6 p  0.01. ppa showed that the proportion of children presenting 1 acute gastroenteritis age was significantly lower in group a 18 vs. 40 p  0.05. the ard for the occurrence of 1 age was -22 95 ci -37 to -6 p  0.01 in group a. similar findings were obtained at ppa regarding the proportion ofnutrients 2017 9 669 doichildren presenting 1 upper respiratory tract infection urti which was significantly lower in group a 51 vs. 74 p  0.05 corresponding to an ard of -23 95 ci -40 to -7 p  0.01. significant changes in innate and acquired immunity biomarkers were observed only in subjects in group a. conclusions dietary supplementation with cow's skim milk fermented with l. paracasei cba l74 is an efficient strategy in preventing cids in children.keywords acute gastroenteritis upper respiratory tract infections probiotics innate immunity acquired immunity gut microbiota immunonutritionintroductionrespiratory and gastrointestinal tract infections are a relevant problem for young children attending day care or preschool especially in the winter season.

the study was considered terminated when the total number of calculated children was reached independently from the number of children enrolled by each center.data collectiona diary was given to the parents by fps with instructions to report the following daily systemic symptoms including fever headache restless myalgia irritability gastrointestinal or respiratory symptoms use of drugs antibiotics antipyretics steroids emergency department medical examinations hospitalizations possible adverse events consumption of the study products schooldays lost by the children working days lost by the parents.

as showed in figure  the proportion of children presenting at least one episode of cid was significantly lower in group a 60 than in group b 83. the correspondingard was -23 95 ci -37 to -9 p  0.01 binomial regression for group a vs. group b. this absolute risk reduction arr corresponds to a number of children needed to treat nnt of 4 95 ci 3 to 11 for group a vs. group b.figure 3. the proportion of children presenting at least one common infectious disease during the study period intention-to-treat analysis.

table gives the main features of the children.figure 1. the design of the study.figure 2. the flow of children through the study group a cow's milk fermented milk with l. paracaseicba l74 group b placebo.height cm -sdage at schooling months -sdpassive smoking n main features of children enrolled in a and b groups were similar.

before the start of the study all fps attended two investigator meetings during which the study protocol was illustrated and discussed and all procedures and definitions were shared.study subjectshealthy children aged 12-48 months attending day care or preschool for at least 5 days a week regularly checked by the fps involved in the trial were considered for the study and consecutively contacted during scheduled medical examinations at the fps office.

subjects were supplemented daily for 3 months with cow's skim milk fermented with l. paracasei cba l74 group a or placebo group b. table reports the composition of the study dietary products.table 1. the composition of the study dietary products.group acow's milk fermented with lactobacillus paracasei cba l74group b placeboenergy kcal367388proteins g24.00carbohydrates g66.497fats g0.60lactobacillus paracasei cba l74 cfu 5.9 x 1011- killed bacteria.participants were supplied with the milk product in powder form by heinz italia spa latina italy an affiliate of the kraft heinz company co-headquartered in pittsburgh pa and chicago il usa.

the incidence rate ratio irr for cid calculated under ppa was 0.64 95 ci 0.42 to 0.98 p  0.05 negative binomial regression for group a vs. group b corresponding to a mean 95 ci number of cid of 2.8 2.0 to 3.7 in group b vs. 1.8 1.3 to 2.3 in group a. table gives the proportion of subjects who experienced at least one episode of rhinitis otitis pharyngitis laryngitis tracheitis or age.table 3. common infectious diseases observed during the study period.microbiological analyses for etiological investigations were not requested in any subjects.at ppa 45 of the children in group a received at least 1 medication course antipyretics antibiotics or steroids as compared with 65 of those in group b corresponding to an absolute risk reduction of -20 95 ci -4 to -38 p  0.05 binomial regression 3 subjects excluded from the analysis because of incomplete or missing data figure .figure 4. the proportion of children requiring medication use i.e.

if confirmed in future studies these findings will pave the way to new approaches in the use of probiotics added to different foods.the favorable low number of children to treat and the net reduction in total number of infections observed in this study suggest that the use of milk fermented with l. paracasei cba l74 could have relevant clinical public health and economic consequences.

group a cow's milk fermented with l. paracasei cba l74 group b placebo.discussionthe results of this rct confirm that dietary supplementation with cow's skim milk powder fermented with l. paracasei cba l74 is associated with a reduction of cids in young children attending daycare or preschool.

as an inactivated probiotic was used in this study we confirm that the viability of the bacteria is not essential to exert an effect on the immune system .on the contrary differences in the bacterial strains used for the preparation of the fermented products could affect the immune function because the immune response to probiotics is usually strain-dependent even within the same species -.in the present study we observed an immunostimulatory effect consisting of a significant increase of the production of innate and acquired immunity peptides.

a total of 146 children were enrolled into the trial 73 in group a and 73 in group b.no child refused to participate after randomization and all children received the allocated intervention.

with the goal of avoiding any possible influence on the stool pattern of children participating into the study the placebo composition was designed in order to provide no more than 2.9 gday of maltodextrins.

during episodes of acute gastroenteritis age or other morbidities children were instructed to continue the assigned study product.study monitoringstudy monitoring was performed by an independent rct monitor blinded to the treatment assignment.

assuming a dropout rate up to 25 we calculated that 73 children per group had to be enrolled into the study.

during these medical examinations personal medical history and general clinical conditions of the children were evaluated diaries were checked the study products were provided to the parents for the next 4 weeks and the product tins were collected.

