open accessprimary health clinic toiletbathroom surface swab sampling can indicate community profile of sexually transmitted infectionsphilip m. giffard jiunn-yih su patiyan andersson and deborah c. holt1 division of global and tropical health menzies school of health research charles darwin university darwin northern territory australia2 school of psychological and clinical sciences charles darwin university darwin northern territory australia3 division of child health menzies school of health research charles darwin university darwin northern territory australia4 centre for disease control northern territory department of health darwin northern territory australiaabstractbackground.

therefore the conjecture we tested was that the relative prevalences of different sti agents in clinic toiletbathroom swabs would be correlated with the relative prevalences of these stis in the notifications data.methodsthe basis of this study was the comparison of previously published data concerning sti agents in toiletbathroom surface swabs  with corresponding nt government sti notifications data .

we concluded that as would be expected this approach to surveillance can be confounded by low numbers of sti agent-positive swabs leading to stochastic effects.acknowledgementsthe authors thank dr. peter markey centre for disease control northern territory department of health australia for providing sexual health clinic specific notifications data and associate professor david whiley centre for clinical research university of queensland for helpful discussions.

because a dna diagnostic technology was used for the sexual health clinic swabs and rna based method for the other swabs encompassed by this study we cannot rule out that sti diagnostic method affects the correlation between swab data and notifications data.

examination of the primary data from the surface swabbing study revealed that this bias is most extreme in the regional and sexual health clinics with all 34 t. vaginalis positive swabs from regional clinics being from female toilets and all 16 of the n. gonorrhoeae positive swabs from the sexual health clinics being from male toilets.

the swabs were subjected to the same sti diagnostic procedure as actual clinical specimens for sti analysis from the clinic concerned i.e.

antibiotic resistance genes or exotic viruses.in conclusion the surface swabbing in the clinics in the remote communities in the nt was effective at indicating community sti profile in large part because of the large number of sti positive swabs.

however as with the remote indigenous data the p values from the permutation method indicated weaker significance than the p values derived using the t statistic.for the darwin sexual health clinic the number of positive sti tests was lower still with 10 positives from 140 swabs.

in summary seven sites within the nt were included two clinics associated with an nt government organisation that investigates possible sexual assaults two ''sexual health'' clinics in the darwin and alice springs urban areas two primary health clinics in small ''regional'' towns and four primary health clinicsin ''remote indigenous'' communities.

swabs from the sexual assault and sexual health clinic were analysed using the dna-based versant ctgc dna 1.0 assay kpcr siemens munich germany and swabs from the regional and remote clinics were analysed by a different service provider who used the rna-based aptima combo 2 assay system gen-probe san diego ca usa.

an assumption in the design was that while absolute built environment loads of sti nucleic acids will be a function of patient traffic density and facility cleaning protocols the relative loads of sti nucleic acids from different species will be largely unaffected by these processes.

therefore we did not regard it asuseful to test the conjecture that absolute sti nucleic acid load on clinic toilet-bathroom surfaces predicts absolute sti prevalence in the community.

rather the experimental design was based on the premise that while toiletbathroom cleaning protocols would be likely to greatly impact absolute sti nucleic acid prevalence on toiletbathroom surfaces they would have much less impact on the relative loads of nucleic acid from different sti agents.

the sti profile defined by these results was compared with the breakdown of time and place-matched sti notifications as described in the methods  .

a surface swabbing approach to sti surveillance encompasses people who have not been subjected to sti diagnostic procedures and it may have potential to provide early indications of outbreaks.

