E-mail An early version of this paper was presented at the Early Intervention in Light of the ICF-CY Meeting held in Groningen the Netherlands 7-9 April 2016.Studies examining the influence of experience on brain development originally assumed that it would require large changes in experience such as being raised in darkness to influence brain development.

We now know that an unex- pectedly large range of experiences alter brain development and that even fairly innocuous-appearing experiences can profoundly affect brain development.

Many developmental experiences including gesta- tional stress tactile stimulation and psychoactive drugs alter various aspects of play behaviour which presumably alters mPFC development.PSYCHOACTIVE DRUGSAll psychoactive drugs including prescription drugs change the structure of neurons especially in prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens.20 Less is known about the effects of drug exposure during development although it has long been known that early exposure to alcohol is dele- terious to brain development.

Experience-expectant plasticity occurs mostly during early postnatal development.

Rais- ing animals in deprived conditions hinders development and may lead to the permanent loss of function.

Learning more than one language in development adds another dimension and especially in learning how to switch rou- tinely between languages.

Furthermore there were abnormalities in dendritic complexity and spine density that changed signifi- cantly across development.

Cao-Le et al.15.Postnatal stress also changes brain development.

Modifications of these relationships can significantly alter brain development and leave effects that remain into adulthood.

For example extensive studies on rats have shown that the time spent in contact between the mother and pups including both the amount of maternal licking and grooming correlate with a variety of somatic and beha- vioural differences and especially modify the development of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.

