modifications to the gut microbiota can contribute to the pathogenesis of anxiety and depression and certain neurodegenerative disorderssuch as alzheimer's disease and parkinson's disease .therefore in the current study prion disease pathogenesis and susceptibility were compared in conventional and germ-free mice to determine whether significant reductions to the abundance of the commensal gut microbiota might also affect prion disease pathogenesis and susceptibility.resultsgroups of conventionally housed mice specific pathogen free control and germ-free mice were injected with prions by either intracerebral ic n10group or intraperitoneal ip n9group routes and survival times and disease inci- dence compared.

the nature of the microglial acti- vation status during cns prion disease is considered to influence the severity of neurodegeneration  but whether the commensal gut microbiota also influence prion disease pathogenesis is uncertain .

our data show that the microbiological status of the mice did not significantly affect survival times or disease susceptibility as all the germ-free mice succumbed to clinical disease with similar survival times when injected with prions by either of these exposure routes ic mean 174-0 days median 175 days p0.702 ip mean 245-3 days median 245 days p0.576.

how- ever the use of germ-free mice is not appropriate here as these mice have altered gastrointestinal motility and transit time  and substantially enlarged caeca  which couldhave profound effects on the uptake of prions from the gut lumen after oral exposure.although changes to the abundance or complexity of the commensal gut microbiota are unlikely to influence prion disease duration or susceptibility concurrent gastrointesti- nal infection with pathogenic bacteria or systemic exposure to their pro-inflammatory components can exacerbate prion disease pathogenesis.

for example systemic treatment with bacterial lps can induce an aggressive pro-inflammatory phenotype in the microglia in the prion disease affected brain leading to increased neuropathology and accelerated disease progression .

pathology to the gut epithelium at the time of oral prion exposure such as that caused by oral infection with the enteroinvasive bacterium salmonella typhimurium can also increase prion disease susceptibility  most likely through the enhanced uptake of prions from the gut lumen .despite the apparent widespread exposure of the uk human population to bovine spongiform encephalopathy bse prions through the food chain  it is fortunate that relatively low numbers of clinical cases of variant creutzfeldt-jakob disease vcjd in humans have been reported .

the clinical endpoint of disease was determined by rating the severity of the clini- cal signs of prion disease exhibited by the mice.

journal of general virology 2017981943-1952 doi 10.1099jgv.0.000860prion disease pathogenesis in the absence of the commensal microbiotabarry m. bradford laura tetlow and neil a. mabbottintroductionprion diseases or transmissible spongiform encephalopa- thies are typically sub-acute neurodegenerative diseases that affect humans and a number of captive and free- ranging animal species.

during prion disease progression affected tissues accumulate abundant aggregations of prpsc abnormally folded isoforms of the host-encoded cellular prion protein prpc .

however systemic administration of inflammatory stimuli such as bacterial lipopolysaccharide lps during cns prion disease can switch the microglial phenotype to one with a more pro- inflammatory bias leading to exacerbated neuropathology.

consistent with this hypothesis prion disease is delayed in mice deficient in cd14 a component of the lps receptor and is accompanied by enhanced expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines such as il-10 .the mammalian gastrointestinal tract is home to a vast community of commensal micro-organisms termed the microbiota .

as anticipated all the conventionally housed mice succumbed to clinical prion disease with a mean survival time of 174-2 days after ic exposure median 175 days and 248-3 days after ip exposure median 247 days .

these data clearly demonstrate that the absence of the commensal microbiota in germ-free mice does not influence disease susceptibility or durationwhen infected with prions directly into the cns ic or after peripheral exposure via the peritoneal cavity ip.during prion diseases aggregations of prion disease-specific prp prpd accumulate in affected tissues.

since the commensal microbiota can constitutively regulate the functional maturation of the microglia  we next compared the status of the microglia in the brains of con- ventionally housed and germ-free mice with clinical prion disease.

a similar semi-automatic quantitative morphometric analysis approach was used here to compare the density and morphology of the iba1 microglia in the brains of conventionally housed and germ-free mice with clinical prion disease.

