The novelty of our results consists in the biphasic dose-dependency of the effects of silver nanoparticles as the same NPs displayed anti-inflammatory effects at low doses but pro-inflammatory effects at high doses.In perfect accordance with this our in vitro and our in vivo data showed a significantly lower inflammatory potential of Ag200-PVP compared to Ag50-PVP at the highest NPs concentration.

Surprisingly the instillation of only 1 ug Ag50-PVP prior to OVA challenge was shown to be immunomodulatory as reported by the reduction i of inflammatory cells in BALF Figure  left ii of peribronchiolar perivascular inflammation and iii of goblet cell hyperplasia in the lung sections Figure c. The immunomodulatory effects of silver NPs have been describedbefore as being due to an AgNPs-induced reduction of intracellular ROS generation suppression of VEGF signaling and mucin regulation in allergic airway inflammation -.

instillation of 10 ug Ag50-PVP had the least effects on BALF cell analysis we chose to proceed with the study of Ag200-PVP and Ag50-citrate using the doses of 1 and 50 ug NPs only.

Interestingly by comparing the effects of 50 ug Ag50-citrate vs. 50 ug Ag50-PVP we observed a significant reduction of macrophages neutrophils and eosinophils in S mice and of neutrophils lymphocytes and eosinophils in NS mice by using citrate-coated NPs.

Microbiome AnalysisTo investigate if the pro- and anti-inflammatory effects of different doses of AgNPs and the effect of the coating of AgNPs with citrate were linked to the antibacterial properties of silver NPs  we performed an analysis of the lung microbiome using whole lung retrieved five days after instillation of 1 or 50 ug Ag50-PVP or Ag50-citrate or respective supernatants and OVA challenge.

The results show dose-dependent toxic effects of Ag-NPs which are highest for Ag50-PVP as measured by LDH and glucuronidase activity compared to the other two NPs tested the release of ROS measured 90 min after NP exposure was significantly increased only at the highest concentrations of Ag50-PVP.

Uptake of silver NP 45 ugmL 16 h is shown in e. Note that while the bottom of the culture dish is clear Ag-NPs appear as black grains localized intracellularly bars 20 um.Ag50-PVP NPs Exert Dose-Dependent Effects In VivoIn order to investigate the effects of silver NPs in healthy and allergic mice increasing concentrations of Ag-NPs 0 1 10 and 50 ugmouse were instilled intratracheally i.t.

There are no reports on exposure to silver NPs at the workplace in susceptible individuals as in people affected by lung disease like asthma but considering the strong dose-dependent immunomodulating effects observed by pulmonary exposure to Ag-NPs in sensitized mice we might consider special protection for asthmatics who are exposed to NPs in the work place.Materials and MethodsPreparation of Silver Nanoparticle DispersionsAg50-PVP Ag200-PVP and Ag50-citrate NPs were obtained from Bayer Technology Services GmbH Leverkusen Germany as aqueous stock suspensions 20 ww and prepared and characterized as described in .

All these data show increased total protein and expressionrelease of inflammatory cytokines only in S mice following 50 ug Ag50-PVP prior to OVA challenge and confirmed the reduced pro-inflammatory effects due to increased particle size and citrate coating.The effects of the Ag-NPs size and coating on pulmonary inflammation have been extensively studied in different rodent models and strains with different particle sizes and concentrations -.

Here we show the pro-inflammatory and adjuvant effects of Ag50-PVP starting at 10 ug significant increase in BALF neutrophils and reaching the highest level at 50 ug per lung which was the highest dose tested.

