as expected the diopf and diopb mice showed a significant increase in both body and epididymal fat weight along with higher levels of fasting glucose and insulin when compared with animals fed on chow diet a-d. however the treatment with probiotics provided a marked decrease in weight gain diopb 12.8-1.1 g vs. diopf 14.7-1.2 g rb.05 and fat pad weight in 5 weeks and also in fasting blood glucose and serum insulin a-d. throughout the intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test ipgtt diopb mice showed improved glucose and insulin profiles compared to diopf animals e and f. likewise the diopf group showed a striking reduction in the glucose infusion rate measured by the hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp compared with control animals and the probiotic treatment partially restored insulin sensitivity in diopf g. it is important to mention that the probiotic treatment did not induce significant difference in any physiologic and metabolic parameters studied in animals fed on chow diet a-g.effects of probiotic treatment on insulin signaling in liver and muscle of dio miceas expected in liver and muscle of mice fed on hfd insulin- stimulated aktser 473 phosphorylation levels were significantly reduced compared to the control animals a-b.

these findings shed light on probiotics as an important tool to prevent and treat patients with obesity and insulin resistance.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.keywords probiotics gut microbiota insulin sensitivityintroductionobesity insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes t2d are metabolic disorders resulting from a combination of genetic and environmental factors including caloric intake and sedentary lifestyle .

as expected in parallel there was an increase in activation of insulin signaling in liver and muscle improving insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance .the positive feedback loop between jnk and proinflammatory cytokines can perpetuate a vicious cycle of low-grade inflammatory signaling contributing to enhanced insulin resistance .

prime insulin human recombinant insulin eli lilly indianapolis in usa was continuously infused 30 mu kg-1 min-1 up to 120 min.

fasted mice for 12 h received intracerebroventricular icv infusion of vehicle or insulin 200 mu in 2 ml eli lilly and company indianapolis in usa at 800 a.m. foodintake was recorded over 4 and 12 h. next day same mice were fasted for 12 h and received icv infusion of vehicle or insulin 15 min before the hypothalamic tissue dissection.

the administration of probiotics in mice fed hfd improved leptin sensitivity as evidenced by reduced food intake induced by leptin in diopf a. in accordance there was an increase in jak2 and stat3 phosphorylation in the hypothalamus of diopb compared to diopf mice b. in addition to greater leptin sensitivity we observed an enhanced anorexigenic effect in response to icv insulin administration in the diopb group after 4 and 12 h c. in parallel akt phosphorylation was increased in response to icv insulin in the hypothalamus of diopb compared to diopf mice d. we further measured mrna levels of npy and pomc in the hypothalamus since these neuropeptides have major action regulating food intake.

available online at sciencedirectprobiotics modulate gut microbiota and improve insulin sensitivity in dio micerenata a. bagarollia natalia tobara alexandre g. oliveirab tiago g. araujoa bruno m. carvalhoc guilherme z. rochaa juliana f. vecinaa kelly calistoa dioze guadagninia patricia o. pradaa andrey santosasara t.o.

in the current study we evaluated the effects of probiotics lactobacillus rhamnosus l. acidophilus and bifidobacterium bifidumi on gut microbiota changes in permeability and insulin sensitivity and signaling in high-fat diet and control animals.

more importantly we investigated the effects of these gut modulations on hypothalamic control of food intake and insulin and leptin signaling.

blood was drawn to determine levels of glucose insulin lps cytokines and glp-1.

probiotics also induced an improvement in hypothalamic insulin and leptin resistance.

the latter whose definition is live microbial food supplements which help maintain the balance of intestinal microflora  have shown in some studies to be effective in the treatment of insulin resistance in both rodents and humans however the deep mechanisms that lead to such benefits are poorly understood .

in the current study we evaluated the effects of probiotics on gut microbiota changes in permeability and insulin sensitivity and signaling in hfd and control animals.

more importantly we investigated the effects of these gut modulations on hypothalamic control of food intake and insulin and leptin signaling.research design and methodsmaterialsantibodies anti-jnk sc1648 anti-phosphorylated jnk sc6254 anti-irb sc711 anti-phosphorylated irb sc25103 anti-irs1 sc559 anti-phosphorylated irs-1 sc33956 anti-jak2 sc278 anti-myd88 sc11356 anti-nod1 sc 398696 anti- stat3 sc483anti-phosphorylated stat3 sc8001 anti-occludin sc5562 and anti- zo-1 sc10804 were purchased from santa cruz biotechnology santa cruz ca usa except as follows anti-akt 9272 anti-phosphorylated akt 9271 anti-a-tubulin 2144 anti-phophorylated jak2 3776 and anti-tlr4 2219 obtained from cell signaling technology beverly ma usa.

dio and c groups received only the vehicle sterile water.hormones and lps determinationenzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits were used to measure insulin millipore st. charles mo usa tnf-a il-6 and glucagon like peptide 1 glp-1 thermo fisher scientific rockford il usa.

