in the present study we demonstrated for the first time that administration of lcs-fermented milk could reduce gut bacterial translocation to the blood in type 2 diabetes mellitus.previous studies clearly showed that persons with higher levels of gut bacterial dna in the blood were at risk of developing diabetes in the future and in animal models a high-fat diet caused gut bacterial dna to be phago- cytosed by macrophages and to subsequently accumulate in the adipose tissue.

the remaining 68 patients were analysed.the results of these previous studies bacterial translocation due to leaky gut could play a still unidentified role in the pathophysiology of diabetes through insulin resistance andor other unknown mechanisms.previously we reported for the first time the presence of gut dysbiosis and a higher rate of detection of live gut bacteria in the blood of japanese patients with type 2 diabetes compared to non-diabetes suggesting that bacterial translocation occurs in type 2 diabetes.

furthermore fecal butyric acids were known to play protective roles in intestinal barrier function through reassembly of tight junctions and other fecal organic acids also improved intestinal barrier function in vitroand in vivo model.therefore we performed an interventional randomised control study to investigate the effects of daily intake of probiotic lcs-fermented milk on the gut microbiota fecal organic acids and bacterial translocation in japanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.resultsbaseline characteristics.

thus interesting roles of the gut microbiota in glucose metabolism are closely linked to the pathogenesis of diabetes and manipulation of the human gut microbiota might provide important clues regarding a new therapeutic target for diabetes.the leaky gut has also been attracting a great deal of attention in the context of metabolic diseases.

therefore some key species in the c. coccoides group might be sensitive to probiotics and a comprehensive analysis is needed to identify which specific bacteria contribute to maintaining gut health in diabetes patients.importantly l. casei l. reuteri and l. gasseri which were present in higher numbers in fecal samples in the probiotic group in this study compared to the baseline.

according to our previous study fecal counts of the c. coccoides group in type 2 diabetes patients were significantly lower than in patients without diabetes diabetesnon-diabetes 9.4 - 0.8  9.8 - 0.5 log10cellsg of feces.

lactobacillus casei shirota supplementation does not restore gut microbiota composition and gut barrier in metabolic syndrome a randomized pilot study.

second as our study did not use a double-blind design patients were aware they were taking probiotics and may have been familiar with their effects on the gut microbiota which might have biased the results of the study.

however the number of probiotic cells was half of that used in our study 4 x 1010 cells and the study period of 12 weeks was shorter than that in our study 16 weeks.

thus gut bacterial translo- cation to the blood might play important roles in chronic low-grade inflammation in obesity and diabetes and as such our main finding that probiotics reduced the counts of live gut bacteria in the blood is considered to be highly significant.

gut dysbiosis and detection of live gut bacteria in blood of japanese patients with type 2 diabetes.

gut bacteria in the blood of diabetes patients were detected in both the control and the probiotic groups during the study period the detection rates were comparable between the two groups table  and did not change significantly between baseline and 16 weeks.

in animal models our group previously showed that probiotic administration improved insulin resistance and glucose intolerance in diet-induced obesity mice with reduction in endotoxemia and an epidemiological study also determined that an increased blood concentration of 16 s ribosomal dna from gut bacteria was a risk factor for developing diabetes in a general population.

furthermore the present study confirmed the presence of bacteremia in type 2 diabetes as did our previous study.

however the total count of gut bacteria in the blood at 16 weeks was significantly lower in the probiotic group compared with the control group p  0.05. figure presented the results of total counts of gut bacteria in blood as graphs.table 2. fecal microbiota at 0 8 and 16 weeks in diabetic patients with and without probiotic administration.p  0.05 vs. baseline p  0.01 vs. baseline p  0.05 vs. control p  0.01 vs. control.

