of the vlbw infants with nec  stage ii eleven received breast-feeding compared with nine who received formula milk for premature infants there were no statistically significant differences.outcomes for neonates 27-32 weeksalthough mortality was slightly lower in period ii 149 v. 126  there was a very significant difference betweennewborns who received probiotics and those who did not 106 v. 24  without probiotics v. with probiotics after adjusting for iugr late-onset sepsis and intraventricular haemorrhage 2. nec  stage ii among the infants who received probiotics decreased significantly 53 v. 14  without probiotics v. with probiotics which highlights the protective effect of probiotics after adjustment for iugr and ventilatory support.

the incidence of nec  stage ii late-onset sepsis and all-cause mortality was compared for an equal period 'before' period i and 'after' period ii rps with lgg orl.

of these infants261 were 32 weeks' gestational age andor 1500 g birth weight period i v. ii 134 v. 127 1. probiotics in either of the two commercial formulations used were given to eighty-six newborns during period ii.

in all 843 and 858 period i v. period ii of the mothers received antenatal steroids and the rate of twin births 366 and 394 in periods i and ii respectively was also comparable between the two periods.

during period ii fewer hours of o2 therapy were supplied although the difference is not statistically significant this did result in a statistically significant decrease in episodes of mild broncho- pulmonary dysplasia and retinopathy of prematurity stages i and ii t1.

however among those who received probiotics the figure was significantly lower 455 v. 53   2. at the limits of statistical significance the rates of nec  stage ii also decreased 205 v. 158  2. we observed no difference between periods i and ii or between infants who received or did not receive supplementation with probiotics as regards the age of achie- ving full enteral nutrition or the days of parenteral nutrition 2.outcomes for lactobacillus rhamnosus gg andlactobacillus bifidum  lactobacillus acidophilusa total of fifty-three vlbw newborns received lgg and thirty- three received the combination of l. bifidum  l. acidophilus in accordance with the dosing schedule described in the 'methods' section.

dr. oloriz 16 18012 granada spainsubmitted 5 january 2017 - final revision received 1 march 2017 - accepted 6 march 2017 - first published online 26 april 2017abstractthe aim of the study was to determine whether routine probiotic supplementation rps with lactobacillus rhamnosus gg lgg or lactobacillus acidophilus  lactobacillus bifidum is associated with reduced risk of necrotising enterocolitis nec  stage ii in preterm neonates born at 32 weeks' gestation.

the study population was composed of 261 neonates period i v. ii 134 v. 127 with comparable gestation duration and birth weights.

in 32 weeks we observed a significant reduction in nec  stage ii 113 v. 48  late-onset sepsis 16 v. 105  and mortality 194 v. 23 .

rps with lgg or l. acidophillus  l. bifidum is associated with a reduced risk of nec  stage ii late-onset sepsis and mortality in preterm neonates born at 32 weeks' gestation.key words probiotics lactobacillus rhamnosus gg lactobacillus acidophillus lactobacillus bifidum necrotising enterocolitis very low birth weight infants late-onset sepsisnecrotising enterocolitis nec is the most common gastro- intestinal pathology in very low birth weight vlbw infants.

probiotics in very low birth weight infants995metabolism and nutrition group has issued a series of recommendations in this respect.the aim of this study was to determine whether routine probiotic supplementation rps with lgg or l. acidophilus  lactobacillus bifidum was associated with a reduced risk of nec  stage ii in preterm neonates born at 32 weeks' gestation.

we hypothesised that the introduction of rps would significantly reduce nec  stage ii.methodsa retrospective cohort study was designed comparing two periods - before and after the introduction of probiotic sup- plementation - for vlbw infants at the neonatal intensive care unit nicu at our hospital period i november 2010-august 2013 period ii december 2013-july 2016.ethical considerationsnutritional supplementation with probiotics for vlbw neonates came into routine practice following the publication of guidelines in this respect by the spanish society of neonatology through its neonatal metabolism and nutrition group.

consideration was given to fortifying the breast milk after reaching feeding volumes exceeding 80 mlkg per d this fortification protocol did not change in periods i and ii.

period ii infants who were not dependent on o2 with birth weight close to 1500 g without antibiotic or infectious risk factors did not receive probiotic supplementation according to the protocol of our neonatal unit.

a total of 20259 77  newborns in period i and 16226 70  in period ii died.

