The recent evolution of nomenclature to define and classify seizures and epilepsy4-6 driven by rapid advances in our understanding of the pathophysiology genetics and imaging correlates of seizure generation and epileptogenesis is making it hard enough for specialists to keep up let alone patients and familiesHow can a parent or other primary caregiver of a child with epilepsy be expected to understand the definition of the term if medical professionals lack a common language Even some epilepsy experts are hesitant to use the word epilepsy instead couching the disorder as a nonspecific phrase such as seizure disorder or some other euphemism.7 Calling epilepsy a seizure disorder is akin to calling asthma a breathing disorder or Ewing sarcoma a cancer disorder--those terms lack specificity and provide no clinical detail rendering them almost useless.

Epilepsy is currently defined as 1 at least 2 unprovoked or reflex seizures occurring more than 24 hours apart or 2 1 unprovoked or reflex seizure with at least a 60 chance of recurrence or 3 a diagnosis of an epilepsy syndrome.4Therefore epilepsy certainly entails seizures but it is so much more especially in pediatric epilepsy where syndromes often comprise a specific age range of onset etiology medication8municate in the most accurate fashion from the outset.

There is an oft-told story of parents who expressed surprise and chagrin when it was mentioned that their child had epilepsy whereas for years they had been told the childwas expressing her love for Romeo irrespec- tive of his name alas he was a Montague.

This challenge is nowhere more poignant than in epilepsy a disorder still fraught with stigma worldwide2 and with dismal public awareness3 in part owing to the way that we professionals use and misuse terminology.

Otherwise we are committing a disservice to patients and fami- lies who deserve an accurate diagnostic label to facilitate their own understanding of their child's disorder as they navigate the medical system seek support from disease advocacy or- ganizations and communicate with friends relatives friends and the wider community.How well do caregivers of children with epilepsy under- stand the terms used to describe this condition The report by Nagan et al in this volume of The Journal is a valiant attempt to characterize and quantify parental understanding of the term epilepsy.8 They hypothesize that parents have a poor understanding of the term.

Through a carefully de- signed telephone survey the investigators surveyed 45 care- giverswhosechildren had been diagnosed with epilepsy.

They inquired how well caregivers understood the definition of epilepsy in 3 ways.

First they asked whether their child had a seizure dis- order epilepsy or both.

Second they asked the caregiver to define epilepsy in an open-ended manner.

Third using a multiple-choice format they asked parents to choose among 4 possible definitions of epilepsy.

