female mice implanted with breast cancer cells 4t1.10 groups of 5 mice treated with ctla-4 blockade.15 female inbred balbc mice control15 female inbred balbc mice tumor induced.induction of t helper 1 th1 immune responses in the tumor-draining lymph nodes and maturation of intratumoural dendritic cells dcs.elevation of the pro-inflammatory cytokines ifn- g tnf-a and il-2 levels and increased nk cell activity.the antitumour effects of ctla-4 blockade depend on distinct bacteroides species.a more efficient immune response toward the cancer if compared to those of the control mice.lactobacillus brevis enriched with selenium nanoparticles senpslactobacillus reuteri atcc-pta- 6475the 4t1 cell line atcc crl-2539 breast tumor line was used for the induction of tumors in inbred balbc mice.experiment 1 outbred cd-1 mice experiment 2 inbred mmtv-neu her2 fvb strain mice.3 groups of 15 mice.l.

below are reported the most important bacteria strains which aid the immune response triggered by anticancer drugs together with their mechanism of action whenever known.probiotic bacteria strains reprogram anticancer immune responsethe most significant in vitro in vivo and clinical studies regarding the influence of probiotic bacteria strains on anticancer immune re- sponse are indicated in .lactobacillus strainsthe majority of probiotics belong to the group of lactic acid bac- teria being lactobacillus the most prominent probiotics members.

instead in this review we briefly survey the up-to-date un- derstanding of how gut microbiota can affect both spontaneous immune responses or immunotherapy against various cancer types.the gut microbiota in immune homeostasis and cancerhuman intestine harbors hundred trillion organisms mainly bac- teria representing the most densely populated ecosystem known to date .

unfortunately the above described immune response against cancer not always performs optimally thus allowing the cancer cells to escape the death.

interestingly when lactobacillus plantarum enriched with selenium nanoparticles senps was given to a group of female mice which received concurrently a subcutaneous injection of breast cancer cells 4t1 and the administration continued throughout the experiment a more efficient immune response toward the cancer through the elevation of the pro-inflammatory cytokines ifn-g tnf-a and il-2 levels and increased nk cell activity were found when com- pared to control mice .

more importantly it has been recently demonstrated that some gut bacteria strains synergize with largely-used anticancer drugs as alkylating or immune checkpoint blockade agents thus optimizing the immune response against multiple solid cancers.

in fact while the immune system shapes the gut microbiota composition the latter regulates the immune systems responses .

the latters play an important role in maintaining immune tolerance not only towards the gut microbiota but also towards dietary antigens and are also fundamental in suppressing tissue injure provoked by immune responses against pathogens e.g.

1influence of probiotic bacteria strains on anticancer immune response.strainmodelsample sizeeffects on immune systemresultsref.l.

here the advances in the understanding of how gut microbes and immune response shape each other in a cancer context are reviewed together with the implications of these finding for future antitumor therapy.

however a detailed description of the role of mammalian immune system in cancer is beyond the scope of this article and can be found in reference section .

the precise identifi- cation of bacterial genera capable of linking intestinal and anti-cancer immune responses is fundamental to open up the possibility to improve cancer therapy by enriching the human intestine of selected cocktail of beneficial bacteria.

similarly the same authors reported that orally administered senps-enriched lactobacillus brevis is able to cause a more efficient immune response in a mouse breast cancer model and reduces the liver metastasis.

this study demonstrated that modulation of the tumor micro-environment by regulating systemic immune cell re- sponses can efficiently counteract both dietary or genetic predisposi- tion to cancer .

as far as the mechanism of action is con- cerned l. reuteri appeared to protect from cancer by favorably biasing the immune system through the induction of anti-inflammatory cd4 cd25 treg cells.

