Several lon- gitudinal birth cohort studies have clearly demonstrated an increased risk of allergic manifestations if one or two parents are or have been affected themselves.Secondary prevention strategies for children who have already developed allergic sensitization or the first manifesta-Modulation of thecomposition of the microbiotaCompetitive adhesion to the receptors with the prevention of pathogens invasionProductionof bacteriocin with prevention of growth of pathogensModulation of theepithelial cell barrierExpression of the tight junction proteinsShort chain fatty acids with improvementof epithelial barriers and anti-inflammatory actionInnate immunitymodulation maturation dendritic cellsModulation of Th1 Th2 rateIncrease of number and activity ofT regulatory cellstions of allergic diseases those strategies aim to reduce the incidence of clinical manifestations such as rhinitis food allergy or asthma.Pre-clinical studies have shown that modifying the microbiota could modulate the global immune response of the host thus reducing sensitization and allergic inflammation  .

The certainty in the evidence is low or very low because of the risk of bias inconsistency and imprecision of results and indirectness of available research.As underlined in two recent reviews replication of the promising results in collaborative well-coordinated multicen- tre harmonized studies with multidisciplinary expertise in pediatrics immunology and microbiology would thus be of great importance to enable future evidence-based implementa- tion .A more prolonged gut microbiota management could achieve a long-lasting impact  .GUiDelineS ReCOMMenDATiOnS OveR TO SCienTiFiC SOCieTieSThe European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology EAACI stated in its food allergy and anaphylaxis guidelines on primary prevention of allergy that there is no evidence to recommend prebiotics or probiotics or other dietary supple- ments based on particular nutrients to prevent food allergy in at risk groups and in the general population grade of recommendation B .The Nutrition Committee of the European Society of Paediatric Gastroenterology Hepatology and Nutrition ESPGHAN concluded 2011 after a systematic literature review on the effect of infant formula supplemented with prebiotics or probiotics on the preventive effect on allergy that there is too much uncertainty to draw reliable conclu- sions from the available data .The World Allergy Organization WAO suggested 2015 on their guidelines on the prevention of allergy to consider using probiotics inwomen pregnant with children with high risk for allergywomen who breastfeed infants at high risk of developing allergy andinfants at risk of developing allergies because there is a net benefit resulting in primary prevention of eczema .COnClUSiOnThere is no positive recommendation from any scientific com- munity to use specific probiotics for the prevention of food allergy or other allergic manifestations  but their use in prevention as a whole class has widespread in clinical practice  .

J Microbiol Immunol Infect 2016 49625-35. doElazab N Mendy A Gasana J Vieira ER Quizon A Forno E. Probiotic administration in early life atopy and asthma a meta-analysis of clinical trials.

A high fiber diet protects against allergic airway inflammation by altering the composition of the flora leading to increased Bacteroidetes and decreased Firmicutes and resulting in increased circulating levels of SCFAs .PRObiOTiCS FOR PRevenTiOn OF ASTHMA AnD eCZeMAIn general preventive strategies for asthma and allergic disorders have been proposed in 2014 General health education avoidance of tobacco smoke expo- sure during pregnancy and after birth.Primary prevention for infants at higher risk.

Cell 2009 30139485-98. doAtarashi K Tanoue T Shima T Imaoka A Kuwahara T Momose Y et al.

J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr 2011 522238-50. doFiocchi A Pawankar R Cuello-Garcia C Ahn K Al-Hammadi S Agarwal A et al.

Curr Opin Allergy Clin Immunol 2015 15495-503. doThompson-Chagoyan OC Vieites JM Maldonado J Edwards C Gil A.

J Allergy Clin Immunol 2007 120343-50. doKendler M Uter W Rueffer A Shimshoni R Jecht E. Comparison of fecal microflora in children with atopic eczemadermatitis syndrome according to IgE sensitization to food.

J Allergy Clin Immunol 2015 13651422. doCuello-Garcia CA Brozek JL Fiocchi A Pawankar R Yepes-Nunez JJ Terracciano L et al.

J Allergy Clin Immunol 2015 13651423-5. doFiocchi A Fierro V La Marra F Dahdah LA.

