The results may clarify the way by which probiotics modify the intestinal environment resulting in a decline of colon cancer development.Keywords probiotics cytokines peripheral blood mononuclear cells colon cancer cells cross-talkINTRODUCTIONThe human body and particularly the gastrointestinal tract con- tain a silent health-sustaining partner represented by a vari- ety of microbial communities designated as microbiota or re- ferred by some authors as microbiome.

The production of TNFa and IL-1b was slightly en- hanced P  0.0138 and P  0.001 respectively at the lower ratios of MS to PBMC by 39 and 30 respectively P  0.001 whereas that of IL-6 was reduced P  0.001 at and the higher ratio only by 17 P  0.005.Effect of MS on anti-inflammatory cytokine secretion Table The secretion of IL-10 and IL-1ra by non-stimulated PBMC was enhanced when cells were incubated with increased ratios of MS4FEMS Microbiology Letters 2017 Vol.

The MS incorporated in the probiotic affected PBMC' cytokine production and altered the cross-talk between immune and colon cancer cells.

The cells were grown in T-75 culture flasks at 37C in a humidified atmosphere containing 5 CO2.Effect of MS on cytokine productionA total of 0.5 ml of PBMC 4x106ml of CM was incubated with an equal volume of CM without or with 40 ngml LPS Escherichia coli Sigma or with 0.5 ml of HT-29 or RKO colon cancer cell lines 4x105ml of CM suspended in appropriate CM.

The im- portance of this kind of studies is in clarifying the way by which probiotics interfere with immune balance between immune and cancer cells.In short probiotics are intensely involved in regulation of au- toimmunity and prevention of an array of diseases including malignancies Ce'nit et al.

The microbiome and its potential as a cancer pre- ventive intervention.

It is of interest that administration of antibiotics to af- fected mice reduced both tumor size and number.Regarding the close relationship between chronic inflamma- tion and cancer growth it is plausible that probiotics may at- tenuate cancer development and progress by preventing inflam- matory processes.

They were washed twice in PBS and suspended in RPMI-1640 medium Biological Industries Beith Haemek Israel containing 10 heat inactivated fetal calf serum and was designated as complete medium CM.Colon cancer cell linesHT-29 and RKO human colon cancer cell lines were obtained from American Type Cultural Collection Rockville MD.

The secretion of tumor necrosis factor alpha TNFa IL-1b IL-6 interferon gamma IL-10 and IL-1ra and the effect of MS on the immune interplay between PBMC and cells from HT-29 and RKO colon carcinoma lines were evaluated.

The term microbiota is used to define the microorganisms in the environment apply- ing 16S ribosomal RNA while microbiome comprises genes and genomes as well as the products of the microbial and host envi- ronment Gill et al.

