so it has been observed that in the c treatment the fungi cor- related with every enzyme positively with b-glucosidase r  0.63 p  0.01 and protease r  0.65 p  0.001 and negatively with cel- lulase r  0.47 p  0.05 and acid phosphatase r  0.79 p  0.0001. the plfas characteristic of fungi in the v treatment correlated with cellulase r  0.47 p  0.05 protease r  0.58 p  0.01 and acid phosphatase r  -0.63 p  0.01. in the vcontrolthe fungal biomass correlated with protease r  0.55 p  0.05 cel- lulase r  0.56 p  0.01 and acid phosphatase r  0.71 p  0.001. in the cv treatment the fungal biomass correlated with b-glucosidase r  0.55 p  0.01 and acid phosphatase r  0.80p  0.0001.compost parameterswith the exception of the cn and wsc ratios the stability and maturation parameters showed significant differences between the treatments p  0.05 .the result of the individual plfa cluster analysis  showed two groups clearly formed by the vermicompost of the v treatment and another group formed by the products from the other three treatments.

all the enzymatic activity b-glucosidase cellulase acid phosphatase and protease showed significant differences p  0.01 depending on the treatment this resulted in significant interactions between the treatment and sampling time p  0.0001 .cellulase activity was significantly affected by the presence of earthworms p  0.001 this effect being dependent on the sub- strate p  0.05. e. andrei caused a decrease in cellulase activity in v treatment as compared to the vcontrol treatment which had higher cellulase activity during the first 91 days of the process.

product quality and microbial dynamics during vermicomposting and maturation of compost from pig manureiria villar  david alves salustiano matodepartment of ecology and animal biology university of vigo 36310 vigo spaina r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 3 may 2017revised 7 august 2017accepted 16 august 2017available online 23 august 2017keywords hydrolytic enzymes plfasmicrobial evolution compost maturation earthwormsa b s t r a c t this research evaluates through microbial dynamics the use of earthworms eisenia andrei for maturation of pre-composted pig manure in comparison with maturation under static conditions and with vermicomposting of fresh pig manure.

of cocoons548 - 67463 - 59survival 98.8 - 1.385.8 - 3.7the asterisk indicates significant differences between substrates student's t-test p  0.05microbial dynamics evolutionmicrobial activitythe two substrates showed significant differences at 0 time with respect to the enzymes greater cellulase p  0.0001 and b- glucosidase p  0.05 activity and lower acid phosphatase p  0.0001 and protease p  0.0001 activity in the pre- composted substrate as compared to the fresh substrate.

b-glucosidase correlated with protease in the c r  0.83 p  0.0001 treatment.microbial communitiesthe substrates showed significant differences at 0 time in all the assessed parameters p  0.0001 totplfas gram  bacteria and fungi presented significant drops after the pre-composting process while the gram bacteria increased significantly p  0.05. micro- bial biomass and microbial groups showed significant differences depending on the treatment p  0.0001 resulting in significant interactions between treatment and sampling time p  0.0001 .totplfas showed significant differences as a consequence of the presence or absence of e. andrei p  0.001 independent ofthe type of substrate.

in this last group there was the highest difference between the cv treatment and the vcontrol and c treatments there existing higher similarity between products that had not been treated with earthworms.discussiongrowth and reproduction of e. andreithe results show the ability of the e. andrei earthworms to grow and reproduce both in fresh and in pre-composted pig manure sub- strates which means that vermicomposting is appropriate for treating pig manure and maturing after previously pre- composting it.table 3parameters of stability and maturity of compost and vermicompost after 112 days of process of vermicomposting v and control vcontrol treatments of pig manure maturation with earthworms cv and static maturation c treatments of pre-composted pig manure.43parameters with different letters indicate significant differences between products tukey test p  0.05. ec electrical conductivity wsc water soluble carbon sr static respiration gi germination index dw dry weight.fig.

at the end of the process the cellulase was higher in maturation treatments consequently the passing of manure through the ther- mophilic stage meant a short-term degradation of the most avail- able materials resulting in the concentration of cellulolytic materials and cellulase synthesis.the action of e. andrei earthworms on b-glucosidase activity hadantagonistic effects depending on substrate that it fed from the earthworms caused a reduction in activity in the fresh manure whereas the opposite was true for pre-composted substrate.

after 112 days the activities were vcontrol cv  v  c.the presence of earthworms did not affect protease activity although significant interaction between the presenceabsence and type of substrate was observed p  0.01 as well as significant interaction between the presenceabsence and sampling time p  0.01. maturation with and without earthworms showed dif- ferent evolutions after day 28 larger activity being observed infig.

no studies comparing vermicomposting and composting process of pig manure through microbial dynam- ics have been found.this research addresses the study of the microbial dynamicsduring the vermicomposting of pig manure and during the matura- tion process of pre-composted pig manure with and without epi- geic e. andrei earthworms.

static maturation presented stability on microbial dynamics that indicated a slow degradation of organic compounds so that maturation of pre-composted manure through vermicomposting is better option.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionspain is the second largest pork producer in the european union and generates more than 50 million m3 of pig slurry per year as a result of this activity .

after 112 days the activities were c cv  vcontrol  v.in terms of b-glucosidase activity the presenceabsence of earthworms had a significant effect p  0.05 depending on the substrate p  0.0001. in the case of fresh substrate the inocula- tion of e. andrei caused a clear decrease in activity as compared to the control the v treatment had slight fluctuations until reach- ing values around 1000 mg g-1 in the last samplings while vcontrol had large swings throughout the process but with values higher than v in every sample.

consequently ver- micompost from pre-composted substrate showed higher degradation of organic material as a result of microbial activity during the previous thermophilic phase of pig manure and the pos- terior interaction of earthworms and microbiota with the pre- composted material.with the exception of the vermicompost obtained from fresh manure which showed optimal parameters close to neutrality the ph of the remaining products achieved slightly acidic values.

consequently the smaller microbial biomass maintained higher activity than the treatments without earthworms suggesting that the passage through the earthworm intestine could result in microbial population that while smaller is metabolically more active .the enzyme protease is considered indicative of the state ofdegradation of organic material due to its extreme dependence on the microbial availability of substrate .

observed higher protease activity during fungi inoculation during compost- ing suggesting that proteolytic activity seems to be strongly influ- enced by the microbial populations and that protein and polypeptide hydrolysis increases during the maturation stage which shows incomplete protein decomposition during the bioox- idative stage.

in the cv treatment the plfas characteristic of gram  bacteria correlated with cellulase r  0.50 p  0.05 and protease r  0.54 p  0.05.a reduction in the plfas characteristic of grambacteria wasobserved as a consequence of the activity of e. andrei earthworms with respect to the treatments without earthworms p  0.001. this effect did not depend on the type of substrate but rather thatfig.

