images were taken at 40x on an invitrogen evos fl auto imaging systemconcentrations growth was significantly reduced from that of the positive control t test bd p  0.0017 bsal p  0.0001 and was not significantly greater than the heat-killed control t test bd p  0.7742 bsal p  0.2914. additionally the ic50 for bd was measured at 3.8 and 27.3 mm for bsal by applying a sigmodal growth curve to the data and determining the concentration of prodigiosin when bd and bsal growth was at 50.for violacein the mic for bd and bsal was at 15 mm where growth was significantly reduced compared to the pos- itive control t test bd p  0.0004 bsal p  0.0001 and was not significantly greater than the heat-killed control t test bd p  0.1298 bsal p  1.0. additionally the ic50 was measured at 14.5 mm for bd and 6.9 mm for bsal.antifungal voc detection from j. lividum and serratia spp.all bacterial isolates tested for voc activity against bd and bsal were capable of inhibiting the chytrid fungi.

b uv-vis spectrum of 17.24 min feature of madagascar- and pgf-derived serratia and an authentic standard of prodigiosinthus leading to a somewhat different retention time than historically observed.using whole genome sequencing as a secondary method for verification genes involved in prodigiosin production were detected in serratia marcescens supplemental material.detection of prodigiosin and violacein from amphibian cutaneous bacteriatwenty amphibian cutaneous bacterial isolates were examined in this study for production of secondary metabolites violacein and prodigiosin.

accession numbers provided for isolates deposited at the culture collection of switzerland ccoslaura a. escobarserratia fonticolavf912015ccos 1112dendropsophus labialistadpolecolombiavicky flechas andlaura a. escobarserratia liquefaciensvf602015ccos 1103dendropsophus labialisadultcolombiavicky flechas andlaura a. escobarserratia liquefaciensvf612015ccos 1104dendropsophus labialisadultcolombiavicky flechas andlaura a. escobarnot detected not detected not detecteda confirmatory approach to detect the potential for prodigiosin production by an amphibian cutaneous bacterium was performed for serratia marcescens and consisted of whole genome sequencing as described in supplemental materials.prodigiosin and violacein antifungal activitywe tested the ability of commercially obtained prodigiosin and violacein to inhibit growth of the pathogens bd and bsal with a dose-response curve analysis.

each bacteriumcompound was performed in triplicate and bdbsal growth was compared to controlstaxonomyisolate idbd inhibition bsal inhibition serratia plymuthicaswissu'seggs528a363.2 3.075.9 0.2serratia plymuthicaswissu'seggs528a377.3 3.179 2.0janthinobacterium lividum80g93.8 0.9-janthinobacterium lividum19g98.4 0.4-prodigiosin00violacein00fungal suppression or facilitation of serratiaand j. lividum growthcell-free supernatant cfs from bd and bsal was applied to the growth medium of the 10 serratia isolates examined here.

because bd and bsal cfs had different effects on serratia growth phosphorous limitation is not likely to be the mecha- nism driving the microbial interactions.while our efforts did not unearth any unprecedented pro- ducers of violacein the production of prodigiosin is indeed widespread among cutaneous bacteria including serratia spe- cies originating from frogs from madagascar both wild and captive as well as across the americas.

we tested if prodigiosin and violacein were capable of volatile activity and we found that there was no voc activity indicating that the bacteria produce other antifungal compounds.table 2 volatile organic compound voc antifungal activity of serratia and janthinobacterium lividum isolates and pure compounds-- prodigiosin and violacein-- against b. dendrobatidis bd andb.

color intensity corresponded with quan- tity of prodigiosin or violacein detected.prodigiosin and violacein antifungal activityfungal growth was reduced by prodigiosin fig.

indeed bd can inhibit serratia growth or prodigiosin production and in two s. marcescens strains the prodigiosin biosynthesis gene cluster was not upregulated in response to live or dead bd .

when serratia isolates were grown in the presence of cell-free supernatant cfs from the fungi cfs from bd inhibited growth of the prodigiosin-producing isolates per- haps indicative of an evolutionary arms race bsal cfs did not inhibit bacterial growth.

the response to both bd and bsal cfs was the same in only three serratia isolates two isolates had no change in growth and growth of one isolate was facilitated by cfs from both pathogens table .

growth was measured as optical density at 490 nm on a spectrophotometer on days 0 3 and 5 for bd incubated at 19 degc and days 0 3 5 7 and9 for the slower growing bsal at 15 degc.antifungal voc detectionto detect vocs that can inhibit bd or bsal growth we follow- ed the methods of woodhams et al.

each concentra- tion of prodigiosin and violacein was tested in triplicate against bd jel 423 or in 6 replicate wells for bsal by performing a 96-well growth inhibition assay after bell et al.

while prodigiosin and violacein are relatively large and polar compounds they were not suspected to have any volatility this test confirmed that antifungal voc activity from bacterial isolates originated from additional antifungal compounds.fungal suppression of bacterial growthto determine if chytrid fungi could inhibit the growth of bac- teria cfss from bd and bsal liquid cultures were tested for activity against the bacterial isolates.

white serratia isolates with undetectable prodigiosin levels could still inhibit bd growth indicating additional anti- fungal compounds in their chemical arsenals.

prodigiosin production by serratia can be inhibited by addition of phosphorous to growth media .

