low temperature and lack of nutrition are the common factors inducing bacteria into such a state 7. otherwise the induction by disinfectants such as chlorine and chloramine were also reported 89. it is noteworthy that vbnc bacteria can resuscitate with suitable conditions like rich nutrition favorable temperature removal of adverse pressure and so on 10. obviously the occurrence of uncultured and vbnc bacteria in the following text the two groups will be collectively referred as non-culturable bacteria for convenience in the samples will result in a dramatic underestimation of the total viable bacterial amounts the sum of culturable and non-culturable bacteria and thus potentially poses a threat to patient health.therefore in order to elucidate the bacterial community in dialysis water accurately it is indispensable to apply protocols independent of culturing.

moreover some detected culturable strains in the ro effluent such as ralstonia and herbaspirillum could release lipopolysaccharides responsible for the pyrogenic reaction and outbreaks of sterile peritonitis 29 30 posing a direct threat to long-term dialysis patients.occurrence and variation of the total viable bacteriaas pointed out the differences between the total bacteria and the total viable bacteria are slight which indicated that most of the bacteria in the treatment system were viable.

for example the total bacterial number should be below 100 cfuml according to china's national standard and 200 cfuml according to the association for the advancement of medical instrument standards 4 5. however the hpc method can only include culturable bacteria which is only a very small part of the total viable bacteria in the samples.

1. process flow diagram.tw tap water sf sand filter cf carbon filter ws water softener ro reverse osmosis.collected from each process except ro water 50 l for enriching the bacteria primarily due to the different levels of bacteria in the water samples.

it was noteworthy that numerous pathogens such as staphylococcus and herbaspirillum were found in the system.the total bacteria and total viable bacteria are also shown in fig.

similar to the culturable bacteria the total viable bacteria also climbed to higher levels of 6.31 x 10 and 2.14 x 10 copies100 ml in effluents of the carbon filter and softener respectively.

the ro process exhibited excellent removals of viable bacteria and the quantity dropped more than a log10 reduction factor of 4.56. the total bacterial amounts as qpcr black column showed the same tendency as the viable bacteria except that theirlevels were always a little higher than the later.microbial community analysis through high-throughput sequencingapproximately 344840 sequence reads of the 16s rrna gene with an average length of 254 bp were obtained after trimming and chimera removal.

the above results demonstrated that the water treatment processes with a core of ro could optimize the physicochemical parameters effectively.occurrence and variation of the culturable bacteriaalthough the culturable bacteria amounts conformed to the standards some tendency was worrying that is the culturable bacteria amounts increased after the carbon filtration and then remained at about 10 cfu100 mlfig.

the results also revealed that the hpc method which was commonly used in many previous studies could not accurately determine the bacteria 31. it is necessary to profile the total viable bacteria for further understanding the dialysis water treatment and assessing the microbiological safety of dialysis water.

the related risks would be amplified if it was considered that vbnc bacteria could still retain some toxicinfectious metabolic activity and resuscitate under certain favorable conditions.with respect to the quantitative distribution of the total viable bacteria the two key impacting factors were chlorine residue and ro retention.

38. moreover it was revealed that staphylococcus aureus could increase the risk of invasive infection of hemodialysis patients 39 40. the high level of these genera alerts the existence of certain occult microbial contaminations in ro effluent that could generate enormous risk to dialysis patients and prompts the remedy of the insufficient traditional method that ignores the detection of uncultured or vbnc bacteria 38. therefore it is necessary to utilize some culture-independent methods such as high-throughput sequencing to profile the complex bacterial community and comprehensively identify the bacteria in hemodialysis water.

2017 275 995-1004 httpsdoi.org10.4014jmb.1612.12002jmbprofiling total viable bacteria in a hemodialysis water treatment systemlihua chen12 xuan zhu3 menglu zhang1 yuxin wang3 tianyu lv3 shenghua zhang1 and xin yu1key laboratory of urban environment and health institute of urban environment chinese academy of sciences xiamen 361021 p.r.

however these methods cannot detect the uncultured or viable but non-culturable vbnc bacteria both of which may be quantitatively predominant throughout the hemodialysis water treatment system.

therefore propidium monoazide pma-qpcr associated with hpc was used together to profile the distribution of the total viable bacteria in such a system.

the hpc results indicated that the total bacterial counts conformed to the standards yet the bacteria amounts were abruptly enhanced after carbon filter treatment.

