alsoselect samples were predominated greater than 80 of reads by anaerococcus lactobacillus acti- nobaculum and an unassigned genus in the family enterobacreriaceae 1. the 16s rdna qpcr analyses indicated that the bacterial load was low in most urine samples 2 a. the mock negative control samples were quantitatively lower than most urine pellet samples but they a had detectable 16s rdna signal 2 a. detectable signal in mock samples is not unexpected as the 16s rdna pcr assay is sensitive and it is difficult or impos- sible to eliminate all bacterial dna from reagents tubes etc.careful measures were taken to filter potential contaminant reads from the data set supplementary methods .

this assay confirmed that the level of p. acnes 16s rdnafigure 3. dendrogram shows log transformed unsupervised clustering of 16s rdna illumina sequencing results from urine pellet samples by genus based on hierarchical clustering of euclidean distance between samples in combined benign cancer and sb groups.figure 4. dendrogram shows log transformed unsupervised clustering of 16s rdna illumina sequencing results from urine pellet samples by species based on hierarchical clustering of euclidean distance between samples in combined benign cancer and sb groups.

we developed a qpcr assay for this organism and of the 135 urine pellet samples analyzed 1 was positive for t. vagi-nalis data not shown.finally in contrast to the dominant organisms observed in most samples  the samples with the highest bacterial load were often dominated by atypical species 2. benign samples up122 and up70 were predominated by an unassigned enterobacteriaceae possibly e. coli and actino- baculum urinale another potential uropathogen respectively.

an average of 64 otus were present in each sample with an average of 60 otus in benign samples 67 otus in cancer samples and 79 otus in cancer on sb samples.

we did not observe a significant association between bacterial load and trus volume reference psa or inflammation level data not shown.bacterial taxa association with pathological featuresunsupervised clustering analyses did not indicate a clear clustering of benign or cancer samples at the genus or species level and of interest is that we identified a clustered group of bacterial species that proportionally contained more cancer samples than the samples outside the cluster 17 of 24 or 70.8 vs 49 of 105 or 46.7 fisher exact test p 0.041 5. this cluster contained the species streptococcus anginosus anaerococcus lactolyticus anaerococcus obesiensis actinobaculum schaalii varibaculum cambriense and propionimicrobium lymphophilum.

almost all of these species have been implicated as causative agents in urogenital infections including prostatitis bacterial vaginosis and urinary tract infections.e several species were found to be more abundant in cancer samples than in benign urine samples 6.no difference in b diversity was found among the level of acute or chronic inflammation gleason score reference psa or trus volume supplementaryfigure 1. genera identified in urine pellet samples from men with or without biopsy proven prostate cancer diagnosis.

boxed area represents species level cluster 5.figure 5. cluster of pro-inflammatory bacterial species differentially present in cancer samples identified in hierarchical clustering of all samples 4.urinary microbiome and prostate cancer169figure 6. mean percent differential abundance of select species of bacteria in benign cancer and cancer sb samples.

notably the samples in the benign group were significantly larger according to average trus volume than in the cancer group indi- cating that this group was enriched for patients with prostate enlargement.sample collection and dna isolationthe 30 ml urine samples were handled using sterile technique and were pelleted by centrifugation at 1000 gravity for 10 minutes within less than 4 hours of collec- tion.

they will be the focus of followup studies.after excluding samples with low sequencing reads we characterized the bacterial composition of urine samples from 129 men including 63 diag- nosed as benign 61 with prostate cancer and 5 with cancer on sb.

one notable example was 2 otus identified as ureaplasma parvum or ureaplasma urealyticum which were differentially represented in cancer samples vs benign samples supplementary table .

although this species was not differen- tially abundant in cancer vs benign samples it wasmore prevalent in samples from men in whom me- dium or high chronic inflammation was observed in the prostate biopsy supplementary table .a species of particular interest to prostate cancer is p. acnes as we and others have reported the presence of this species in prostatectomy tis- sues.

while similar trends have been reported in urine samples from women female urine samples differ in that the predominant organisms are lactobacillus and gardnerella.

although only 5 samples were available in the current study the cancer on sb samples had the highest average number of otus and none showed a predominance of corynebacte- rium staphylococcus or streptococcus 1.while additional followup studies are needed to validate the finding of differentially represented bacterial species in the urine of men with cancer vs those with a negative biopsy to our knowledge this is the first study to identify such differential bacte- rial species in men with prostate cancer.there were several limitations to the current study including the fact that all men were being seen for some indication for prostate biopsy.

profiling the urinary microbiome in men with positive versus negative biopsies for prostate cancereva shrestha james r. white shu-han yu ibrahim kulac onur ertunc angelo m. de marzo srinivasan yegnasubramanian leslie a. mangold alan w. partin and karen s. from the department of pathology es shy ik oe amd kss sidney kimmel comprehensive cancer center amd sy kss and department of urology lam amd awp kss james buchanan brady urological institute johns hopkins university school of medicine and resphera biosciences jrw baltimore marylandpurpose studies demonstrating bacterial dna and cultivable bacteria in urine samples have challenged the clinical dogma that urine is sterile.

dna was extracted from urine pellet samples and subjected to bacterial 16s rdna illuminar sequencing and 16s rdna quantitative poly- merase chain reaction.

