invariably disease control attained in the greenhouse was superior to that in the field with disease control failure a common occurrence in the field w in the context of the extended range of field studies reported comparison at the field scale was not related to the plant performance in the absence of disease thus the economic signi- ficance of the findings is not clear.the failure of introduced microbial agents to consistently and effectively provide biological control should not come as un- expected based upon the inherent requirements to attain soilborne disease suppression.

given the breadth of research the extent of bacterial and fungal genera comprising commercially formulated biological control agents is somewhat limited including ampelo- myces bacillus coniothyrium paecilomyces phlebiopsis pseu- domonas rhizobium serratia streptomyces and trichoderma among others the market share for agricultural inoculants representing plant growth promoting microorganisms biocontrol agents and plant resistance stimulants is projected to reach 437.1 million by 2020 and growth in the market will be driven predominantly by increases in crop production relying upon organic farming practices as of 8.17.2016. this figure is dwarfed by the global crop protection chemicals market which is projected to reach 70.57 billion by 2021 as of 8.17.2016.although traditionally limited to a specialized niche for applica- tion in conventional field-based agriculture deployment of com- mercialized biological agents for disease control has significant usefulness for application in organic or protected crop production e'these systems provide an opportunity either as a result of the limited availability of effective options for soilborne disease management or due to the system being more easily manipulated to optimize survival and activity of the introduced biocontrol organism.

the inoculativeinundative model of microbial introductions has been the most commonly employed in the field of biological disease control following on the paradigm utilized in the field of entomology vhowever the inherent biological complexity of soil systems has served as a challenge to the success of biological soilborne disease control a feature that in general is not limiting to a similar degree in the domain of phyllosphere microbiology.

significant transformation of the rhizosphere microbiome occurred at lower seed meal rates for g.210 rootstock than mm.106 rootstock and corresponded with relative disease control achieved.current limits in thought and practice to induced biological controlthe argument can be made that use of input strategies to foster development of biologically mediated soilborne disease control suffers in some degree from the same limitations in predicting effective outcomes as biological controls applied using the inundative release strategy although recent studies employing next-generation sequence analysis have effec- tively outlined changes in the soil microbiome associated with disease suppression in response to a management practice there has been an absence of analysis concerning the evolutionary processes that ultimately yield composition of the effective microbiome.

phytopathology 93982-994.lebeis s. l. paredes s. h. lundberg d. s. breakfield n. gehring j. mcdonald m. malfatti s. del rio t. g. jones c. d. tringe s. g. and dangl j. l. 2015. salicylic acid modulates colonization of the root microbiome by specific bacterial taxa.

n'these biological transfor- mations not only are associated with disease suppression but may create a biological environment that is even more resistant to invasion by introduced agents than the nontreated soil system 1.capacity to integrate biological controls with these methods through enhanced microbial persistence cannot be assumed and would require a more complete understanding of microbial agents with potential to benefit from such modified systems.

one such possibility is to recognize the limits of the methodology and to employ the resource in systems or environments where a positive outcome is achievable while a simple and inherently obvious statement it is not a strategy that has consistently been pursued.creating system opportunities for successful introduction of biological controlsthere is a fundamental value in the use of microbial introductions as a means to provide biological disease control based upon the general lack of options in organic production systems or for use in integrated disease control programs.

phytopathology  2017  107256-263  prospects for biological soilborne disease control application of indigenous versus synthetic microbiomesmark mazzola and shiri freilichfirst author u.s. department of agriculture-agricultural research service physiology and pathology of tree fruits research laboratory 1104 n. western avenue wenatchee wa 98801 and second author agricultural research organization of israel volcani center bet dagan israel.accepted for publication 18 november 2016.the application of biological controls as a means to manage plant diseases and in particular soilborne diseases has been a continuing area of active research for numerous decades.

significant differences in expression of the 24-dapg biosynthetic gene phla were detected in the rhizosphere of different cultivars of maize similarly plant genotype could influence com- position of the bacterial root endophyte community through dif- ferential phytohormone production despitethese observations there is an absence of information regarding the attempt to marry these plantmicrobe attributes in commercialdevelopment of biological controls.expansion of the introduced microbial complexgiven the complexity of soil microbiomeplant interactions the limitation of the one strainone pathogen approach to biological soilborne disease control should not be an unexpected finding.

a combination of horticultural ecological and computational approaches need to be employed to address the above challenges and promote the development of robust approaches for the educated design of specific strategies in manipulation of the soil microbiome for soilborne disease control.opportunity to promote assembly of suppressive microbiomesuccess of a substrate-based treatment to stimulate a microbiome- mediated disease control strategy will be determined by the introduction of accessible metabolites that are beneficial to organisms functional in disease control or deleterious to organisms contributing to disease progression.

comparison of bacterial communities demonstrated that plant host and its corresponding root exudates shape community structure in the rhizosphere at a more detailed level analysis of maize inbred lines cultivated under field conditions provided evidence of heritable variation in rhizosphere microbial community composi- tion abundance and genotypes of pathogen suppressive bacteria possessing a specific functional attribute were found to be recruited to the rhizosphere in a plant-cultivar dependent manner this finding indicated the potential importance of host genotype in determining efficacy of strategies that seek to promote functional biological disease control by managing the indigenous soil microbiology.recent findings in the application of brassica seed meal derivedplant disease control and growth promotion of apple on orchard replant sites support this premise.

the argument can be made that the greatest utility of outcomes from research programs focused on biological control of soilborne plant diseases has been to inform our understanding of soil microbial ecology and identification of functional microbial entities and mechanisms by which saprophytic plant-associated microorgan- isms act to suppress diseases  and persist in soil environments 09. identifi-corresponding author m. mazzola e-mail address cation of the diverse functional mechanisms contributing to the active plant pathogen suppression by microbial agents has been a hallmark of research in the field of biological control  6 .

a. robeson m. s. lu t. s. jawdy s. brown s. d. ussery d. w. schadt c. w. tuskan g. a. doktycz m. j. weston d. j. and pelletierd.

rainey p. b. freilich s. schuster s. milferstedt k. van der meer j. r. grosskop t. huisman j. free a. picioreanu c. quince c. klapper i. labarthe s. smets b. f. wang h. and soyer o. s. 2016. challenges in microbial ecology building predictive understanding of community function and dynamics.

in the majority of instances the capacity of these agents to protect the plant over the course of a field growing season has not been attempted with assessments limited to a greenhouse environment or a fraction of the expected cropping season duration.when challenged to provide disease suppression over the course of a commercial growing season single strain microbe introduc-tions for management of diseases to which the plant host possesses an extended period of susceptibility consistently have failed to provide effective disease control under field conditions similar outcomes can be quoted for a broad range ofplantpathogen systems for which season long protection of thesusceptible host is desired if not required.

