difficile infection as indicated by a significant reduction in their abundance in ant  cr control group ant  cd  0.05 cr and ant  cd  0.10 cr groups p  0.05 figure 5. carvacrol treatment significantly increased the abundance of lactobacillaceae and lachnospiraceae in the gut microbiome compared to that of negative control figure 5 p  0.05. the abundance of lactobacillaceae and lachnospiraceae was significantly reduced following antibiotic treatment ant control group and c. difficile ant  cd control group infection compared to the negative control and cr alone cr control groups p  0.05. this effect was significantly reversed by the supplementation of cr in ant  cr control ant  cd  0.5 cr and ant  cd  0.5 cr groups.inverse simpson plot revealed a differential pattern of bacterial diversity in various treatment groups figure 6. strikingly cr treatment did not alter the diversity of the gut bacterial community compared to the untreated control group negative control.

difficile spores were orally gavaged after antibiotic treatment exhibited a remarkably increased abundance of proteobacteria along with a greater proportion of verrucomicrobia compared to all other control groups negative control cr control ant control ant  cr control groups p  0.05. in addition the abundance of bacteriodetes and firmicutes was significantly reduced in c. difficle control group ant  cd compared to uninfected controls p  0.05. strikingly this alteration in the abundance of proteobacteria firmicutes bacteriodetes and verrucobacteria due to c. difficile infection was reversed significantly by cr supplementation as observed in the cr- treated and c. difficile infected groups ant  cd  0.05 cr and ant  cd  0.10 cr groups p  0.05.at the order and family level an increased abundance of enterobacteriaceae was observed in antibiotic alone antcontrol and c. difficile ant  cd groups compared to negative control and cr control groups figure 5. moreover cr supplementation significantly reduced the abundance of enterobacteriaceae induced by the antibiotic administration andc.

no diarrhealsymptoms were observed in control groups negative control cr control ant control and ant  cr control.effect of cr supplementation on clinical score and body weight of c. difficile infected miceclinical scores of the individual animals in different groups were recorded using standard clinical score chart from 1dpi to 7 dpi chen et al.

strikingly cr reduced antibiotic-induced increases in the abundance of unfavorable bacterial populations such as proteobacteria specifically pathogenic gamma proteobacteria including enterobacteriaceae and other bacterial populations such as verrucobacteria figure 5. surprisingly this beneficial shift brought about by cr treatment in the gut microbiome of antibiotic-treated and c.difficile infected animals is very much similar to that of human patients who have undergone fecal microbiome transplantation weingarden et al.

the statistical significance level was set at a p  0.05.resultseffect of cr supplementation on the incidence of diarrhea and severity of c. difficile infection in micein order to assess the prophylactic effect of cr against c. difficile associated diarrhea in mice 8 mice per treatment group the animal diets were supplemented with cr at two different concentrations 0.05 and 0.1 in feed prior to antibiotic treatment and subsequent c. difficile infection ant  cd  0.05 cr and ant  cd  0.1 crthe oral administration of 105 cfuml nap1 c. difficile spores resulted in high morbidity and low mortality in infected mice.

2011. the c. difficile control group ant  cd group exhibited significantly increased severity as indicated by a higher average clinical score per group on 1 2 3 and 4 dpi figure 2 p  0.05. the severity of cdad in animals supplemented prophylactically with 0.05 and 0.1 cr ant  cd  0.05 cr and ant  cd  0.1 cr groups was lesser than that of the untreated group ant  cd p  0.05. on 1dpi there was a dose-dependent reduction in the severity of infection in cr supplemented groups.

difficile control group ant  cd showed significant and progressive weight loss from 1 dpi to 5dpi compared to the negative control p  0.05. however cr-treated and c. difficile infected mice ant  cd  0.05 cr and ant  cd  0.1 cr groups showed a significantly lesser weight loss in comparison to untreated and c. difficile infected group ant  cd from 1 dpi and 2dpi with regaining of the initial weight on 3dpi p  0.05. no significant difference in recorded weight loss was observed between 0.05 and 0.1 cr-treated c. difficile infected mice except for a rapid and early increase in the body weight on 2dpi in the 0.05 cr group.effect of cr supplementation on the gut microbiome of c. difficile infected and non-infected micemicrobiome analysis results revealed specific patterns in the composition of different bacterial taxa in different treatment groups.

results suggest that cr could potentially be used to control gut dysbiosis and reduce c. difficile infection.keywords clostridium difficile carvacrol microbiome gut dysbiosis mouse modelintroductionclostridium difficile infection is the major cause of antibiotic-associated diarrhea in hospital settings around the world mcfarland 2008 hookman and barkin 2009. c. difficile principally causes a serious toxin-mediated colitis in the elderly and immunocompromised patients weese 2010. annually more than 300000 cases of c. difficile associated diseases cdad are reported in the united states resulting in more than us3 billion as health care costs wilkins and lyerly 2003 ghose et al.

diverse pharmacological actions of carvacrol including antimicrobial andanti-inflammatoryactivitieshavebeenpreviously demonstrated baser 2008. a recent study from our laboratory suggested the potential use of cr as an anti-c. difficile therapeutic agent due to its inhibitory effect on c. difficile toxin production without affecting the growth of beneficial gut bacteria in vitro mooyottu et al.

previous studies have reported that supplementation of low doses of cr exerted no detrimental effects on endogenous bacterial populations including lactobacilli and bifidobacteria in pigs and poultry jamroz et al.

2006.previous studies conducted in our laboratory revealed that sics of cr reduced c. difficile toxin production and cytotoxicity in vero cells in vitro mooyottu et al.

in addition our previous experiments showed an inhibition of c. difficile spore outgrowth in the presence of cr mooyottu et al.

moreover cr has been reported to possess anti- inflammatory and anti-diarrheal properties baser 2008 which could also have exerted a beneficial effect in c. difficile infected mice.a healthy and normal gut microflora is crucial for preventing pathogen colonization and a variety of enteric bacterial infections including c. difficile britton and young 2014. the most important predisposing factor for c. difficile infection is the disruption of normal gut microbiota hookman and barkin 2009. antibiotic therapy significantly alters the microbial composition and diversity and in many cases alterations in the microbial diversity persist to an extent even after withdrawing antibiotic administration dethlefsen et al.

these findings suggest the potential of cr as an anti- c. difficile agent however further clinical studies are warranted to confirm this.author contributionskv conceived the idea kv and sm designed the experiments and prepared the manuscripts sm gf and au performed the experiments km and iu analyzed the data.acknowledgmentsthis research was funded by united states department of agriculture-national institute of food and agriculture usda- nifa critical and emerging food safety issues program grant 2010-03567.supplementary materialthe supplementary material for this article can be found referencesaltman k. w. chhaya v. hammer n. d. pavlova s. vesper b. j. tao l. et al.

antibiotic administration significantly increased the proportion of proteobacteria in antibiotic-treated ant control group compared to the negative control and cr control groups p  0.05. interestingly supplementation of cr along with antibiotic ant  cr control significantly reduced the abundance of proteobacteria compared to the antibiotic only ant control group.

