preincubation of drg neurons with sc-514 20 um an nfkb inhibitor  for 2 h before the addition of met-1 prevented the decrease in excitability of drg neurons by met-1 a f361  7.878 p  0.0002one-way anova followed by newman-keuls test post hoc test.figure 4. effects of met-1 on drg neuron excitability is mediated in part by serine proteases.

p  0.01 one-way anova with newman-keuls post hoc test.subsequently drg neurons preincubated with pd98059 30 um  an erk12 inhibitor for 2 h before the addition of met-1 prevented the decrease in excitability of drg neurons by met-1 b f359  4.029 p  0.0005 one-way anova followed by newman-keuls test post hoc test.bacterial strain-specific effects on neuronal excitabilityto determine whether individual strains of bacteria from met-1 could have similar effects on the excitability of drg neurons we tested two individual strains bifidobacterium longum 16-6-i 4 fm hereafter 4m and f. prausnitzii 16-6-i 40 faa hereafter 40faa.

we found that these bacteria reduced the excitability of drg neurons de- termined the mechanisms involved and examined whether met-1 could reverse the hyperexcitability of drg neurons caused by colitis.materials and methodsanimals.

met-1 had no effect on the percentage of drg neurons that responded to capsaicinfigure 1. met-1 decreases excitability of drg neurons.

together these data suggest that secretory products of met-1 can inhibit the excitability of drg neurons including those that innervate the colon.voltage-clamp recordings were obtained to examine the role of voltage-gated k and na currents in the decrease in drg excitability observed in response to met-1.

the effects of met-1 on excitability of drg neurons were abolished following heat treatment  f258  11.26 p  0.0001 one-way anova followed by newman-keuls test post hoc test.protease-mediated effects of met-1 on neuronal excitability because heat-sensitive proteases can be produced by enteric bac- teria and are well-characterized modulators of excitability in drg neurons     we sought to determine whether the active mediator in met-1 supernatant could be a protease.

the decreased excitability of drg neurons by met-1 was prevented following preincubation for 2 h with the serine pi fut-175 100 um  b f359  4.211 p  0.0091one-way anova followed by newman-keuls test post hoc test but not other individual pis cysteine acid proteases metallo- proteases aminopeptidases c. additionally we investi-figure 2. met-1 increases drg neuron kcurrents.

cat g concentration-dependently decreased excitability of drg neurons by increasing rheobase by 43 com- pared with controls d f452  4.796 p  0.0023 one-way anova followed by newman-keuls test post hoc test.par-4-mediated effects of met-1 on neuronal excitability because serine proteases are known to act on pars which are present on drg neurons we sought to determine whether met-1 acts via a par  .

moreover super- natant from met-1 grown without the inclusion of 40faa evoked no change in excitability of drg neurons compared with media alone b f287  7.369 p  0.0006 one-way anova followed by newman-keuls test post hoc test.effects of met-1 on drg neurons from mice with colitis during colitis the mucosal barrier is compromised leading to bacterial translocation as well as exposure of nociceptive nerve terminals to inflammatory mediators.

our data also indicate that whereas colon- projecting drg neurons are inhibited by met-1 secretions non-colon-projecting drg neurons may also be influenced by the secretions of members of the colonic microbiota.

in addition to demonstrating the potential antinociceptive effects of 40 faa on drg neurons we were able to show that removal of this strain from our original met-1 community abolished the observed decrease in excitabil- ity of drg neurons.

cellularmolecularprotease-mediated suppression of drg neuron excitability by commensal bacteriajessica l. sessenwein1 corey c. baker1 sabindra pradhananga1 megan e. maitland1 elaine o. petrof1 emma allen-vercoe2 curtis noordhof1 david e. reed1 stephen j. vanner1 and alan e. lomax11gastrointestinal disease research unit queen's university kingston ontario k7l 2v7 canada and 2department of molecular and cellular biology university of guelph guelph ontario n1g 2w1 canadaperipheral pain signaling reflects a balance of pronociceptive and antinociceptive influences the contribution by the gastrointestinal microbiota to this balance has received little attention.

thus we tested whether a community of commensal gastrointestinal bacteria derived from a healthy human donor microbial ecosystem therapeutics met-1 can affect the excitability of male mouse drg neurons.

met-1 reduced the excitability of drg neurons by significantly increasing rheobase decreasing responses to capsaicin 2 um and reducing action potential discharge from colonic afferent nerves.

the serine protease cathepsin g recapitulated the effects of met-1 on drg neurons.

