however aplysin treatment reduced the abundance of anaerophaga anaerostipes and peptococcus compared with those in the alcohol model group.p 0.05 vs controlp 0.05 vs model.reduced the abundance of anaerophaga anaerostipes and peptococcus compared with those in the alcohol model group p 0.05 .the correlation analysis between gut microbiota and serological indexesbivariate borrelations analysis was performed between the 17 genera that were changed by alcohol or aplysin intervention in all the groups of rats.

alcohol exposure caused liver injury as indicated by lipid droplet accumulation arrow 1 inflammatory cell infiltration arrow 2 microvesicular steatosis arrow 3 and mal- lory body arrow 4. liver cells in alcohol model group rats were swollen and their pathologi- cal score significantly increased compared with that of control group rats p 0.05 .

fabp-2 also named as intestinal fatty acid binding protein is specifically expressed in intestinal epithelial absorbing cells and is released into the blood once the intestinal mucosa is damaged .as shown in  the levels of plasma endotoxin dao d-la and fabp2 in the alcohol model group were increased compared to those in the control group p 0.05. after aplysin intervention endotoxin dao and fabp2 levels were reduced by 6.94 13.72 and 21.41 respectively compared with those of the alcohol model group p 0.05. the level of plasma d-la was also decreased compared to the alcohol model group p  0.05.effect of aplysin on inflammation and il-1b il-6 il-10 tgf-b and tnf-a levelsthe levels of serum tnf-a and tgf-b in the ethanol model group were elevated and reached1.9 and 1.2 times those in the control group respectively.

however the abundance of prevotella in the aplysin group was higher than that in the alcohol model group p 0.05.among all genera whose abundance ranked 4th  14th alcohol feeding deceased the abun- dances of bacteroides from the bacteroidetes phylum and helicobacter from the proteobac- teria phylum and increased the abundance of clostridium iv from the firmicutes phylum compared with those in the control group p 0.05. the abundance of clostridium xlva from the firmicutes phylum in the alcohol model group was increased but there was no statis- tically significant difference compared to that in the control group.

in the alcohol model group the level of il-10 was increased to 2 times than that in the alcohol model group p 0.05.eric-pcr fingerprint analysis of the gut microbiotaeric is one repetitive sequence of genes that mainly exists in intestinal bacteria and has a length of 127 bp.

c control group m alcohol model group a aplysin intervention group.in addition alcohol feeding resulted in changes in other bacterial abundances at the genus level with increased abundances of meniscus anaerophaga and rikenella all from thethree-dimensional figure of the first three rdp distributions.

the current study for the first time highlights the protective effect of aplysin a brominated sesquiterpene on the gut microbiota and the intestinal mucosal barrier against ethanol-induced liver injury in rats.our previous studies have demonstrated that a sequential increase in the alcohol dose 812 ml kg-1 bw induces hepatic injury and overcomes tolerance caused by the alcohol correlation analysis between gut microbiota composition and enzymology indexes of liver function.consumption at the same dose  .

the present study showed that enzyme activities of serum ast alt and alp and hepatic tg level in the alcohol model group were significantly increased compared with those in the control group after 8 weeks of alcohol feeding.

enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus polymerase chain reaction eric-pcr and 16s rdna high-throughput sequencing were performed to provide an overview of the gut microbiota composition.resultschronic alcohol exposure caused liver damage in rats.

alcohol administration elevated the lev- els of serum transforming growth factor-b tgf-b and tumor necrosis factor-a tnf-a and reduced interleukin-10 il-10 levels compared with those of control rats.

two hours after alcohol or saline lavage rats of control and model groups were supplemented orally with 1 ml soya bean salad oil via an intragastric tube for 8 weeks.

rats in the aplysin treatment group were supplemented orally with 150 mgkg-1 d-1 of aplysin dissolved in soya bean salad oilvia an intragastric tube for 8 weeks.the type of alcohol is red star erguotou 56 vv ethanol purchased from beijing red star co. ltd.the normal diets were purchased from the experimental animal and animal experiment center qingdao china.

the liver pathological score in the alcohol model group was significantly increased compared with that of control group rats.

the liver pathology score in aplysin intervention group rats was better than that of the alcohol model group.

however alcohol administrationsmall intestine pathological changes in rats.

