Our findings in addition to those of Imhann et al and Jackson et al high- light the potential for PPIs to affect health through alteration of the gut microbiota and the need to limit inappropriate and unnecessary use of PPIs.Kelly R Reveles12 Caitlin N Ryan3 Luisa Chan3 Reese A Cosimi14 Wanda L Haynes51College of Pharmacy the University of texas at Austin San Antonio texas USA2Pharmacotherapy education and research Center Ut Health San Antonio San Antonio texas USA3Second Genome Inc. San Francisco California USA 4South texas Veterans Healthcare System San Antonio texas USA5Institute for Integration of Medicine and Science Ut Health San Antonio San Antonio texas USACorrespondence to Dr Kelly r reveles Ut Health San Antonio Pharmacotherapy education and research Center San Antonio tX 78229-3900 USA Acknowledgements the authors would like to thank the staff at the First Outpatient research Unit Ut Health San Antonio and at Second Genome Inc. for their assistance with study procedures.

Gut Online First published on October 9 2017 as 10.1136gutjnl-2017-315306 Post script LetterProton pump inhibitor use associated with changes in gut microbiota compositionWe read with great interest the recent publi- cations in Gut by Imhann et al and Jackson et al which assessed the impact of proton pump inhibitor PPI use on gut microbiota diversity and composition in humans.

Beta diversity was significantly associated with PPI use p0.0001.In line with our findings Jackson et al found higher Streptococcaceae and lower Lachnospiraceae and Erysipelotricha- ceae abundance in PPI users comparedwith non-users.

These studies controlled for some potential confounders in their analyses however intersubject variability could have influenced their results.We assessed the impact of PPI use on the gut microbiota composition in a prospective study of healthy older adultsFamilyBold values indicate statistical significance at p0.05.age 60 years from San Antonio Texas USA.

Using three independent cohorts 211 PPI users and 1604 non-users Imhann et alreported a significant decrease in alpha diversity and changes in 20 of bacterial taxa in PPI users compared with non-users.

Among 1827 healthy twins Jackson et alalso found a significant decrease in alpha diversity and alteration of bacterial composition in PPI users.

Notably both studies found a higher abundance of oral commensals including Streptococcaceae among PPI users.

PERMANOVA was used to assess the impact of PPI use on beta diversity.A total of 24 subjects completed thestudy mean age 71.4 years and 62.5 women.

Imhann et alalso noted that PPI users had enrichment for Strep- tococcaceae but a lower abundance of Bifidobacteriaceae.

Of note decreased Bifidobacterium is associated with Clostridium difficile infection CDI whereas supplementation with Bifidobac- terium is associated with reduced risk of developing CDI in humans.Similarly the abundance of Streptococcaceae is signifi- cantly increased in CDI while Lachno- spiraceae are reduced compared with healthy controls.While studies have been somewhat inconsistent a 2012 meta-anal- ysis of 42 studies found that PPI use was associated with an increased risk for initial and recurrent CDI.This led the US Food and Drug Administration to issue a drug safety warning in 2012 regarding this association.

