two subgroup analyses of the effect of the type of ppi and the effect of ppi therapy in users and non-users of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs indicated no significant differences in the prevalence of small-bowel injuries in these two groups.pharmaceutical company limited eisai co. ltd. zeria pharmaceutical co. ltd. and nihon parametric technology and a collaborative fund from hoya-pentax company as a chiefconclusionppi therapy did not increase the prevalence of small-bowel injury regardless of the type of ppi used and the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.investigator of the university of tokyo.

no previous studies have evaluated whether ppi therapy affects the small-bowel mucosa in non-users of nsaids.the risk of small-bowel lesions has been reported to be dependent on drug therapy and comorbidities-.

similarly ppi therapy caused no significant differences in the prevalence of small-bowel lesions among non-users of nsaids.to estimate the influence of protopathic bias we performed a subgroup analysis of patients who could be predictable indications for ppi therapy such as patients with a previous history of peptic ulcer and those with a history of nsaid or aspirin use using another propensity- matched analysis and tables.

association between proton pump inhibitor therapy and significant small-bowel lesions in propensity-matched patients.ppi proton pump inhibitor ci confidence intervaland ulcers did not increase with ppi therapy regardless of the type of ppi used.

research articleproton pump inhibitor therapy did not increase the prevalence of small-bowel injury a propensity-matched analysisatsuo yamada1 ryota niikura1 koutarou maki2 masanao nakamura3 hirotsugu watabe4 mitsuhiro fujishiro15 shiro oka6 shunji fujimori2 atsushi nakajima7 naoki ohmiya8 takayuki matsumoto9 shinji tanaka6 kazuhiko koike1 choitsu sakamoto2open accesscitation yamada a niikura r maki k nakamura m watabe h fujishiro m et al.

2017 proton pump inhibitor therapy did not increase the prevalence of small-bowel injury a propensity- matched analysis.

this study was designed to assess the association between ppi therapy and small-bowel lesions after adjustment for the differ- ences in baseline characteristics between users and non-users of ppis.methodswe retrospectively studied patients suspected to be suffering from small-bowel diseases who underwent capsule endoscopy between 2010 and 2013. we used propensity matching to adjust for the differences in baseline characteristics between users and non-users of ppis.

few clinical studies have evaluated the effect of ppi therapy on the small-bowel mucosa.

to assess the association between ppi therapy and small-bowel lesions differences in baseline characteristics between users and non-users of ppis need to be adjusted.

in the present study we conducted a propensity-matched analysis to assess the association between ppi therapy and small-bowel lesions by using a large multicenter capsule endoscopy database.methodsstudy design setting and participantswe used a prospective capsule endoscopy database originally designed by the japanese associ- ation for capsule endoscopy jace.

drug therapy was evaluated for the following medications nsaids lda thienopyridine dipyridamole icosapentate beraprost sarpogre- late limaprost warfarin non-vitamin k antagonist oral anticoagulants steroids pregabalin ppis histamine h2-receptor antagonists and mucosal protective agents.

drug therapy was defined as oral administration starting at least one month before ce.the primary outcome was the prevalence of significant small-bowel lesions.

significant lesions were categorized as follows    erosion or ulcer--a central pallor and sur- rounding erythema and loss of villi angioectasia--a circumscribed patchy flat sharply demar- cated reddened area small-bowel varices--distended tortuous or saccular veins and tumor-- a protruded lesion with mucosal change.statistical analysisthe propensity score was estimated using a logistic regression model for ppi users as a func- tion of patient demographic and drug therapy data.

two subgroup analyses of the effect of the type of ppi and the effect of ppi therapy in users and non-users of nsaids were also performed.

to estimate the influence of protopathic bias we performed a subgroup analysis of patients who could be pre- dictable indications for ppi therapy such as patients with a previous history of peptic ulcer and those with a history of nsaid or aspirin use using another propensity-matched analysis.

