further analysis of operational taxonomic units revealed a high abundance of genes associated with twocomponent systems and secretion systems in the sal group whereas the pro group had more genes associated with ribosomes.conclusion the results of this study indicate that b. subtilis csl2 administration can modulate the microbiota in hlb laying hens potentially acting as a probiotic to protect against salmonella gallinarum infection.keywords bacillus subtilis intestinal microbiota laying hens probiotics salmonella gallinarumintroductionsalmonella enterica s. enterica is a pathogen that causes salmonellosis an acute inflammation of the intestines in poultry including broilers and laying hens 1. in humans salmonella infec tion is highly contagious via fecaloral transmission consumption of undercooked chicken meat or mishandling of raw contaminated poultryderived products 1. poultryderived products can be infected with many serovars of s. enterica including s. typhimurium s. typhi s. pullorum and salmonella gallinarum s. gallinarum 1. most of these serovars are transferable to humans and other livestock animals resulting in the development of foodborne diseases and diarrhea.

previous studies have reported that the distal gut and fecal isolates of infected poultry may serve as sites for bacterial colonization and growth of s. gallinarum 17. many studies have investigated the mode of infection of s. gallinarum and its relatives but to our knowledge no studies have explored the impact of s. gallinarum infection and probiotic administra tion on the gut microbiota and functional profiles of laying hens.

therefore a detailed analysis of these key functions might shed light on the probiotic mode of action and mecha nisms of s. gallinarum infection in laying hens.conclusionthe microbial and functional profiling of hlb laying hens de monstrated the potential protective effects of using an infeed probiotic supplement b. subtilis csl2 against s. gallinarum infection.

probiotics and synbiotic com pounds are also able to increase the growth of potentially probiotic groups such as bifidobacterium and lactobacillus 821. the lactobacillus group is known to include several strains reported to be beneficial to their hosts 22. some of the beneficial effects of probiotic strains include production of antimicrobials including hydrogen peroxide lactic acid and bacteriocin 23 productionof enzymes for the breakdown of feedbased polysaccharides 2425 and immunomodulation 26. high levels of lactobacilli have been shown to inhibit the growth of salmonella escherichia coli k88 and several other pathogens in broiler chickens 10 and pigs 8 thereby enhancing the performance of livestock animals by protecting against bacterial infection.in the present study the overall microbial profiles of laying hens were significantly changed by infection with s. gallinarum and administration of b. subtilis csl2 as depicted in the pca plot figure 3. the apparent clustering by group suggests that birds develop distinct microbial signatures based on their infec tion status and probiotic administration.

the pca showed that the microbiota of the con sal and pro groups were similar before s. gallinarum infection figure 3a however due to the dynamic nature of the chicken gut microbiota certain animaltoanimal variation was still ob served as 1013. after infection the microbiota of the sal group became significantly different from those of the con and pro groups suggesting that s. gallinarum might trigger general changes in the fecal microbiota of laying hens figure 3b.

tukey's honestly significant differ ence was employed to compare functional differences between groups with a significance threshold of p0.05.resultsdiversity values in probiotic-fed and infected laying hens the effects of s. gallinarum infection and b. subtilis csl2 admini stration on the alpha diversity of the fecal microbiota of laying hens were determined table 1. alpha diversity values were mea sured as shannon and simpson diversity indices in the con sal and pro groups.

while the shannon and simpson values were similar across all groups before s. gallinarum infection after infection the diversity values of the sal group decreased relative to those of the con and pro groups.

we com pared the diversity and composition of the gut microbiota of hlb laying hens infected with s. gallinarum with and without the administration of a probiotic supplement b. subtilis csl2.

gallinarum causes serious illness that results in morbidity and mortality among poultry and other livestock 1. s. gallinarum is a major source of dehydration loss of appetite and diarrhea in poultry with inadequate protection and reduced resistance against bacterial infection.

differences in the pro portions of bacterial taxa phylum and genuslevel classification were calculated among the three groups before and after inocu lation with s. gallinarum.

s. gallinarum was then orally ad ministered to the sal and pro groups.

feces were sampled from all groups beginning at the end of the week 31. at the end of week 34 both the sal and pro groups were orally challenged once with s. enterica subsp.

this technology has been applied in microbiota studies in humans 7 pigs 89 and broiler 10. however no study has yet sought to characterize the microbiota of hyline brown hlb laying hens under the influence of s. gallinarum infection or probiotic treatment.in the present study the fecal microbiota of hlb laying hens was investigated using 16s rrna gene pyrosequencing.

laying hens were either uninfected infected by s. gallinarum or salmonellainfected but protected by b. subtilis csl2.

the metabolic and functional profiles of each groupof laying hens were compared which provided deeper insights into the gi processes influenced by s. gallinarum and b. subtilis csl2.

