ns p  0.05.ppi---upper gastrointestinal tract were significantly increased less than fourfold in the fecal samples after ppi administration p  0.044 q  0.05. furthermore streptococcus abundance in both salivary and periodontal pocket microbiota also showed a trend to be higher after ppi usage as compared with the baseline values al- though the difference was not statistically significant p  0.106 0.188 while fusobacterium and leptotrichia organisms were also detected more frequently following ppi administration in peri- odontal pocket fluid p  0.030 q  ns and p  0.002 q  0.05. in contrast it was notable that the neisseria and veillonella genera were significantly decreased in saliva with ppi usage p  0.034 q  0.05 and p  0.008 q  0.05 while the level of the haemophilus genera tended to be lower p  0.018 q  ns.

however a number of possible side effects have recently been suggested including nutritional deficiencies increased risk of bone fracture and risks of enteric and other infections.13-15 notably reports of increased risk of clostridium difficile infection small intestinal bacterial overgrowth and community acquired pneumonia indicate that ppi administration may carry a risk equivalent to that related to oral antibiotics use16-20 while another study reported a significant increase in salivary ph after ppi administration for con- trol of gerd.21 therefore acid inhibition in the upper gastroin- testinal tract may have an effect on the oral microbiome leading to microbiota alteration.18-20in the present study we investigated the influence of ppi usage on oral and gut microbiota using 16s rrna profiling of saliva periodontal pocket fluid and fecal samples obtained from healthy volunteers who were not taking antibiotics or other medications.

color figure can be viewed at findings suggested that samples obtained from before and after ppi usage aggregated to form a cluster in all three microbiota indicat- ing a significant difference in the salivary bacterial community be- tween ppi usage and non-usage according to distance-based multivariate analysis permutational multivariate analysis of vari- ance findings unweighted unifrac distance p  0.002 weighted unifrac distance p  0.015 and bray-curtis distance p  0.020. furthermore the bacterial profiles of the feces and periodontal pocket fluid samples were not significantly different between the groups before and after ppi usage feces unweighted unifrac distance p  0.819 weighted unifrac distance p  0.588 and bray-curtis distance p  0.787 periodontal pocket fluidunweighted unifrac distance p  0.149 weighted unifrac distance p  0.188 and bray-curtis distance p  0.193. when we extracted only data from the salivary samples and re-performed pcoa analysis microbiota alterations of the salivary bacterial profiles before and after ppi administration were more clearly classified fig.

periodontal pocket fluid samples without saliva or blood contamination were collected by a single dental surgeon k. t.. two periodontal pockets were sampled at the two collection time points before and 4 weeks after start of esomeprazole administration.

comparisons of alpha diversity microbiota diversity within each sample revealed no significant differences between with and without ppi administration in any of the sali- vary periodontal pocket fluid and fecal samples according to the estimated otu numbers obtained using the chao 1 index fig.

feces ppi-  feces ppi  saliva ppi-  saliva ppi  periodontal pocket ppi-  periodontal pocket ppi.

dna was extracted from collected fecal and saliva samples using a glass bead extraction method and purified accord- ing to a previously reported method.24 for extraction and purifica- tion of dna from periodontal pocket fluid samples an enzymatic method previously described was used.25 the amount of dna was determined using a quantifluor dsdna system and quantus fluorometer promega madison wi usa.pcr amplification and analysis of 16s rrna se- quences.

this result was unexpected because it has been reported that chronic administration of ppis caused a moderate alteration in fecal microbiome when groups with and without ppi administration were compared.32-34 in the present study different from prior investigations a ppi was administered at a standard dose for 4 weeks to healthy individuals then the microbiome in the obtained samples was compared before and after that administration in the same subjects.

we obtained fecal saliva and periodontal pocket fluid samples from 10 healthy adult volunteers before and after administration of esomeprazole at 20 mg once daily for 4 weeks.

compliance with administration of esomeprazole by the subjects was 100. no adverse effects of ppi treatment were reported.fecal saliva and periodontal pocket gingival cre- vicular fluid sample collection.

3a.unifrac distance was slightly changed but not significantly greater after ppi administration as compared with the baseline in the saliva periodontal pocket fluid and feces samples two-sided student's two-sample t-test fig.

ns q  0.05.recent accumulating evidence indicates that frequent adminis- tration of ppis has raised the ratio of streptococcus organisms which are predominantly found in the upper gastrointestinal tract in the fecal microbiome leading to increased risks for gas- tric and intestinal microbiota alteration.17 in this study the ge- nus streptococcus was also increased after ppi administration in all three types of samples although the difference in saliva and periodontal pocket fluid did not reach a statistically signifi- cant level.

however because most streptococcus species harbored by humans are obviously commensal rather than pathogenic bacte- ria additional investigations to identify species or strain of the increased streptococcus organisms in the community are required.an interesting finding of our study is the significant alterations of bacterial composition in both saliva and periodontal pocket fluid samples following administration of esomeprazole.

periodontal pocket samples thus obtained were immediately transferred to plastic vials containing 900 ml of guanidine thiocyanate solution and frozen at 80 degc until further analysis.dna preparations from fecal saliva and periodon- tal pocket fluid samples.

the v3-v4 region of the 16s rrna gene was pcr amplified from stool saliva and periodontal pocket fluid dna samples using a takara ex taq hot start pcr mixture takara bio.

