taken together these data highlight the dramatic relevance of microbiota in the modulation of the host immune system .the role of proteobacteria in gut inflammation has been addressed in various mice models of colitis with positive correlations 52 3. for example carvalho et al.

notably all these conditions are sustained by various degree of inflammation which thus represents a core aspect of proteobacteria-related diseases.introductionthe gut is the most colonized human organ with up to 100 trillion microbes about 10 times the number of the human cells at this level more than 50 phyla have been described with however the predominance of only 4 major phyla firmicutes bacteroidetes actinobacteria and proteobac- teria .notably gastrointestinal tract git is also colonized by fungi and virus which constitute respectively the gut mycobiome and the gut virome metagenomics allowed estimating the number of genes of the microbiota the so-called microbiome with a number exceeding by more than 150 times the human genome about3.3 million in comparison to about 20.000 genes in humans thus representing a real second genome for the host.the number of microbial cells display4s a p7ositive rostro-belong to the firmicutes phylum .

rizzatti l. r. lopetuso g. gibiino c. binda and a. gasbarrinidepartment of internal medicine gastroenterology division policlinico a. gemelli hospital rome italycorrespondence should be addressed to a. gasbarrini received 5 july 2017 accepted 16 october 2017 published 2 november 2017 academic editor filippo canduccicopyright c 2017 g. rizzatti et al.

the name proteobacteria was first proposed by stackebrandt et al.

for example lambeth et al.

they found a significant increase in an unknown genus belonging to the enterobacteriaceae family included in the phylum proteobacteria as well as an increase in the genus collinsella in the t2dm group in comparison to the other groups .a connection between low-grade inflammation sus- tained by lipopolysaccharides lps and the development of metabolic disorders is well established  however the hypothesis regarding the direct role of the microbiota in the development of this inflammatory state called endo- toxemia is more recent and was studied in particularby cani et al.

in addition inoculation with a clinical isolate of the enterobacter popula- tion in germ-free gf mice overcomes the resistance to the development of obesity after a high-fat diet hfd 32. in fact gm mice are usually resistant to hfd-induced obesity 33 4.major insights into the role of microbiota in obesity comes from the very well-known study by turnbaugh et al.

for example vrieze et al.

for example michail et al.

when analyzing at family and genus levels authors found that this difference was sustained by an increase in enterobacteriaceae and escherichia respectively.similar results were obtained by kapil et al.

in fact vaughn et al.

for example de filippo et al.

for example amar et al.

the authors found that mice progressing to colitis showed a definite microbiota signature character- ized by increased levels of proteobacteria especially of the escherichia genus .interestingly langgartner et al.

this new pathogenic group was called adherent-invasive e. coli aiec due to its potential to adhere and subsequently invade intestinal epithelial cells 7 1. further studies revealed that aiec were more prevalent in cd in comparison to healthy controls were particularly associated with ileal cd and were also found as the prevalent microorganisms colonizing ileal lesions of these patients 72.another study conducted by willing et al.

