In a mouse model of MCMVassociated lung disease the frequency of virus specific CD8 T cells in the MCMVinfected lungs of germfree mice was restored by fecal bacteria from specific pathogenfree mice likely through crossactivity between gut microbiota pep tides and epitopes of MCMVspecific memory T cells .Furthermore mice challenged with pulmonary staphylococ cal infection but lacking segmented filamentous bacteria intheir gut microbiota showed more severe infection with higher bacterial load and mortality associated with diminished lung concentration of Th17 immune effector cells.

Antibiotictreated mice before lymphocytic choriomenin gitis LCMV infection elicited an impaired innate and adaptive immune response to LCMV infection and an increased mortal ity after influenza infection .Systemic to Systemic ProtectionMicrobiota or its components that are normally distributed across the host system can also induce systemwide coloniza tion resistance in the host.

Local protection is ensured by mechanisms that are directly targeted against microorganisms or indirectly through the host immune system.LONg-ReACHiNg PROTeCTiONWe now turn to protective microbes that help the host from a distance by either inducing systemic protection that is a protection realized in the entire organism or protection at a particular remote site.

In humans gut microbe E. coli O86B7 induces antibodies that target plas modium sporozoites conferring a protective crossresponse against malaria transmission .Systemic innate and adaptive immune responses to Toxo- plasma gondii infection in humans rely on the indirect stimula tion of dendritic cells by normal gut microflora .

In localtosystemic protection micro organisms at a single location such as the gut microbiota can confer protection through systemic immune responses or leave the local site and disseminate to other regions.

The mechanisms of hostmediated modulation of bacte remia and endotoxemia primarily of lipopolysaccharides are currently being explored under the context of highfat intake or obesity which weaken gut integrity leading to increased pen etration of gut microbes or their products into the circulation.

The epithelium barrier and gut mucosal immune system prevents the translocation of micro organisms from the lumen into the host.

The gut microbiota shapes intestinal immune responses during health and disease.

Cell 2009 139485-98. doCerfBensussan N GaboriauRouthiau V. The immune system and the gut microbiota friends or foes Nat Rev Immunol 2010 10735-44. doChudnovskiy A Mortha A Kana V Kennard A Ramirez JD Rahman A et al.

Composition of the gut microbiota modulates the severity of malaria where a fecal transplant from resistant mice transfers the resistance to germfree mice by elevating humoral immune responses.

