a first distinction is made between the effects of meals individual foods specific nutrients or nutrition sta- tus on drug action and vice versa the effects of drug use on determinants of nutrition status  class 1--effect of obesity and malnutrition on drug actionclass 2--effect of nutrition on drug actionclass 3--effect of specific nutrients or dietary supple- ments on drug actionclass 4--effects of drugs on nutrition statusclass 5--effects of drugs on nutrient status.class 1 dnis are about the impact of overweight or mal- nourishment on drug action.

proper consideration of nutritional status in drug action and assessment of adverse drug effects on nutri- tional status clearly requires a paradigm change towards inclusion of nutritional assessment throughout the stages of drug development and evaluation ranging from early stage experimental work through clinical investiga- tions approval and eventually post-marketing surveil- lance.

acad med 8591537-1542. doiqato dm wilder j schumm l gillet v alexander g 2016 changes in prescription and over-the-counter medication and dietary supplement use among older adults in the united states 2005 vs 2011. jama intern med 1764473-482gu q dillon cf burt vl 2010 prescription drug use con- tinues to increase u.s. prescription drug data for 2007-2008. nchs data brief 421-8boullata ji 2013 drug and nutrition interactions not just food for thought.

j biol chem 2854332720-32733. doigurzell ea wiesinger ja morkam c hemmrich s harris ws fenton ji 2014 is the omega-3 index a valid marker of intestinal membrane phospholipid epa  dha content prosta- glandins leukot essent fatty acids 91387-96. doiroy s brasky tm belury ma krishnan s cole rm mar- ian c yee ld llanos aa freudenheim jl shields pg 2015 associations of erythrocyte omega-3 fatty acids with biomark- ers of omega-3 fatty acids and inflammation in breast tissue.

exam- ples of specific interactions have been recently summa- rized and discussed elsewhere .table 1 effects of polypharmacy on nutritional statusdrug-nutrition interactions as adverse drug reactionadverse drug reactions adrsmedication-related health problems are a public health issue of major relevance especially in elderly people.

more- over children premenopausal women and elderly subjects are underrepresented in premarketing trials just as patients having more than one disease andor using more medica- tions simultaneously.drug-nutrition interactions dnishowever evaluation of drug safety before and after drug approval is principally about the consequences of sin- gle drugs or interactions between drugs.

with exception of the effects of whole meals and macronutrients on drug action drug-nutrition interactions dnis are not specifi- cally addressed during the drug development phase .effect oneffect byfood intakegastrointestinal discomfortpoor appetite gastrointestinal digestionabsorption central nervous system depressionnutrient absorptiongastrointestinal malabsorptionrecognition of dnis is often hampered by limited nutri- tional knowledge among researchers and professionals in the health care field nutrition education in eu medical schools is between 0.5-3 days and in the us about 2.5 day -.

there is no search for the best nutritional background that fits the study purpose even for condi- tions where evidence for interaction of nutritional factors with pharmacological efficacy or adverse drug effects was available early in the course of drug development as was the case for interaction of renin-angiotensin-aldos- terone-blockade and sodium intake .

pharmacoepidemiol drug saf 174365-371. doihazell l shakir sa 2006 under-reporting of adverse drug reactions a systematic review.

bleeding events had no relation to the omega-3 index of these patients .intravenous omega-3 fatty acids given before an opera- tion rather improved outcome but had no effect on bleeding  .the us-american federal drug administration regards up to 3 gday of epa plus dha as safe docket no.

however aggressive lowering of ldl cholesterol by statins comes with the risk of lowering polyunsaturated fatty acid pufa concentrations as well  and mitigating the health ben- efits of omega-3 fatty acid supplementation .

prostaglandins leukot essent fatty acids 923-14. doiwitte av kerti l hermannstadter hm fiebach jb schreiber sj schuchardt jp hahn a floel a 2014 long-chain omega-3 fatty acids improve brain function and structure in older adults.

prostaglandins leukot essent fatty acids 714263-269. doistark kd van elswyk me higgins mr weatherford ca salem n jr 2016 global survey of the omega-3 fatty acids docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid in the blood stream of healthy adults.

experts and stakeholders should advocate for the integration of drug-nutrition eval- uations in the drug development process.

strategies for the individual patients should be developed by installing drug review protocols screening for malnutrition and integrat- ing this topic into the general medical advice.keywords public health  drug-nutrient interactions  micronutrient deficiency  microbiota  health benefits introduction szabolcs peter1 dsm nutritional products ltd. wurmisweg 576 4303 kaiseraugst switzerland2 university of groningen university medical center groningen hanzeplein 1 9713 gz groningenthe netherlands3 preventive cardiology medizinische klinik und poliklinik i ludwig maximilians-universitat munchen ziemssenstr.

