marginatus 9 and 10 specimens had consistent re- sults two of four ticks representing sivas province isolat- ed d. marginatus samples 11 and 12 accounted for most of the abundances of the pathogen bacterial taxa.although r. annulatus had greater occurrence of pathogen genera these numbers are relatively low compared to non-pathogenic or endosymbiotic bacteria same was true for samples 9 and 10 of d. marginatus species.

marginatus ticks both in this study and our very recent investigation this species might contributed to rickettsiosis cases reported in turkey keskin et al.

marginatus is characterized as thermophylic tick ecologi- cally favoring areas under oak and pine vegetation in europe and in amasya and tokat provinces in turkey where numer- ous d. marginatus ticks isolated from humans especially in the spring and fall estrada-pena et al.

diversity analysis showed that similarity measure based on species proportions such as thetan coefficient may be more adequate for measuring the similarity of two populations as explained by yue and clayton .multi-response permutation procedures mrppmrpp analysis of the two tick species using sorensen bray- curtis distance measure indicated significant difference among bacterial taxa p  0.05. mrpp also indicated that bacterial taxa were not different between the male and female adult tick specimens p  0.8449 or location 0.0713.identification and relative abundance of bacterial taxapyrosequencing allowed for assessment of the relative abun- dance of diverse taxonomic groups of bacteria in samples.

pyrosequencing was performed on adult males and females iso- lated from human hosts from two high-risk turkish provinces sivas and amasya during outbreaks in 2009.material and methodspyrosequencing and analysisfour adult male and female tick specimens were isolated from human hosts from two high-risk turkish provinces sivas andamasya during outbreaks in 2009. these ticks were sent to a laboratory where the dna was extracted as described by dowd et al.

while feeding on the host ticks cause problems like skin irritation and anemia in addition to serious health problems as vectors of many bacterial pathogens pro- tozoan parasites and viruses estrada-pena and jongejan  sonenshine and roe .there are more than 900 tick species in the world with 47 of them present in turkey bursali et al.

annulatus is one of the most significant bovine infectious species and plays an important role as a vector of many path- ogens causing growth obstruction and death of the infected animals estrada-pena et al.

marginatum h. scupense h. turanicum rhipicephalus annulatus r. bursa r. sanguineus r. turanicus dermacentor marginatus d. niveus haemaphysalis parva and ixodes ricinus bursali et al.

marginatus is prevalent in the mediterranean region confined to areas with dense scrubland in the european part of the mediterranean region estrada-pena et al.

analogous to our results preceding studies also associated d. marginatus as both vector and reservoir of hu- man pathogen rickettsia by detection or isolation in many european countries selmi et al.

the objectives of this investiga- tion are to characterize the microbial communities of two tick species rhipicephalus annulatus and dermacenter marginatus analyze patterns of co-occurrence among micro- bial taxa identify and compare pathogens contributing human diseases and determine whether avirulent symbionts could exclude human pathogens from tick communities.

beside the most prevalent viral tick-borne disease cchf several cases of tick-borne encephalitis tbe as well1056parasitol res 2017 1161055-1061as two bacterial infections lyme borreliosis and tick-borne ricketsiosis were also reported in turkey kaya et al.

more specifically this study explores a microbiome of the two ixodid species r. annulatus and d. marginatus infesting human via the bacterial 16s tag-encoded flx-titanium amplicon pyrosequencing btefap technique to describe their bacterial diversity.

1 relative abundance of most prevalent bacterial taxa in two tick species rhipicephalus annulatus a male b female and dermacentor marginatus c male d femaler.

the most distinguishable dif- ference between the two species of ticks is the lack of rickettsia genus in r. annulatus compared to d. marginatus where these pleomorphic bacteria compose approximately 60 of total abun- dance.

