vaginal b. dentium isolates mainly differed from the type strain due to their ability to use d-cellobiose 44. overall for b. breve isolates n 15 there was a complete agreement between vaginal isolates and the type strain atcc 15700 gut origin for utilization of 71 3549 of carbon sources tested.

for b. dentium n4 a complete agreement of 84 4149 was observed between vaginal isolates and type strain atcc 27534 oral cavity origin.a second analysis was performed considering the percentage of vaginal isolates that were positive for each carbon source in com- parison to the literature description of the type strains supplemental table 3. this analysis enabled the comparison of isolates for which the type strain was not available for inclusion in our fermentation assays.

lactic acid was produced by all vaginal isolates with b. longum strains producing the highest levels but only 32 of isolates produced hydrogen peroxide.

kashiwanohensen4g052560.047strains n 14 3 and g. vaginalis n 14 3 after incubation at low ph and high lactic acid n5g012560.028concentrations in comparison with bacteria cultured at ph 6.8. results shown are the average of at least three replicate experiments.methods for total bacterial population quantification will be needed to better describe this relationship in the context of overall community size.to learn more about the characteristics of vaginal bifidobacteria detected in sequence-based microbiome studies we collected 40 isolates from vaginal swabs of clinically healthy women with most isolates being identified as b. breve or b. longum .

in this study our main objectives were 1 to apply species-specific quantitative pcr to confirm the relative abundance of bifidobacterium in the vaginal microbiomes of reproductive aged women previously determined based on cpn60 barcode sequencing and 2 to characterize vaginal bifidobacterium isolates based on carbohydrate fermentation patterns hydrogen peroxide production lactic acid production resistance to low ph and lactic acid and susceptibility to antibiotics.material and methodssamples and microbiome profilesvaginal microbiome profiles from 492 healthy women were previously published by our research group .

where more than two isolates were available b. breve b. longum b. dentium and b. bifidum two iso- lates were selected randomly to be included in the assay.an aliquot 50 ml of the overnight inoculum was added to eachcontrol or experimental medium final volume 5 ml and then incubated anaerobically at 37 0c for 2 h. control media was pre- pared at ph 6.8. experimental media was prepared at ph 4.5 with the following concentrations of lactic acid 0 mm 1 mm 10 mm 100 mm and 1000 mm and at ph 3.9 with 100 mm and withoutlactic acid 0 mm.

crispatus strains mann-whitney p 14 0.240 .tolerance to low ph and lactic acida subset of vaginal bifidobacteria isolates 1540 and three typestrains were selected for testing tolerance of low ph and high lactic acid concentrations and the percent survival values for each isolate under different conditions are shown in .all bifidobacteria tested were able to survive at ph 4.5 with up to 100 mm lactic acid conditions typical of vaginal fluid of healthy women with a lactobacillus dominated microbiome and that have been shown to be lethal to many vaginosis associated bacteria .

a. omnicolens and b. kashiwanohense n 2 were the isolates most affected by lactic acid with survival declining considerably when incubated with 100 mm lactic acid ph 3.9. two bifidobacteria type strains b. breve atcc 15700 andb.

at physiological concentrations 56e111 mm both forms of lactic acid are effective in decreasing hiv infectivity in vitro at lower concentrations l-lactic acid has greater virucidal activity than d- lactic acid .

however what is noteworthy is that the levels of lactic acid produced by vaginal bifidobacteria especially b. longum are comparable to those of l. crispatus the organism most often associated with a healthy vaginal micro- biome .considering that lactic acid is a hallmark of a healthy vaginaknowing the levels of acid produced by different bifidobacteria is of interest when evaluating whether a vaginal microbiome dominated by bifidobacterium should be considered as protective as a microbiome dominated by lactobacillus.

other studies have shown that protonated lactic acid rather than lactate anion is the microbicidal form of lactic acid  which emphasizes the role of ph in mediating lactic acid activity.

the percent bacterial survival was calculated based on the ratio of colony counts log10 cfuml of bacteria that had been incubated in experimental media treatment compared to colony counts log10 cfuml of bacteria that had been incubated in control media control ac- cording to the following formulapercent sur i al log10cfuml treatment 100log10cfuml controlsusceptibility to antibioticssusceptibility of bifidobacteria to clindamycin and metronida- zole was evaluated using etest strips biomerieux france in a subset of bifidobacteria isolates n 22. the subset selection was based on the following criteria for species where 4 isolates were available all were included.

where more than four isolates were available b. breve b. longum four isolates were selected randomly to be included in the assay.

for interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend the reader is referred to the web version of this article.r 0.784 p  0.0001. the correlations remained significant when samples with zero values were removed from analysis.vaginal bifidobacterium isolatesa total of 40 isolates from the vaginal swabs of 26 women from canada and kenya were included in the study supplemental table 1. based on the cpn60 gene pcr amplification sequences of the 40 isolates were compared to cpndb and the nearest type strain sequence was identified as b. breve n 15 98.9e99.8 sequence identity over 552 bp b. longum n 11 99.1e100 b. dentium n 4 99.1e99.5 b. bifidum n 3 100b.

isolates whose nearest reference species were b. adolescentis n1d05 n5f04 or b. kashiwanohense n4g05 n5g01 clustered separately from the type strains with good bootstrap support.carbohydrate fermentation patternsvaginal bifidobacteria isolates were tested for their ability to metabolize 49 different carbon sources.

