a differences in microbial load cells per gram of faeces log-transformed y axis between healthy controls control n  66 and patients with crohn's diseasecd n  29. wilcoxon rank-sum test p  0.001. b example of discordant genera when microbiota alterations in samples from patientswith crohn's disease are assessed using rmp or qmp log-transformed y axis bacteroides is significantly increased in crohn's disease patients using rmp but the signal is lost using qmp.

using a quantitative approach we identified that this key microbiome signal is driven by an overall reduction in microbiota cell counts rather than by the blooming of disease-asso- ciated taxa with the effect size of crohn's disease on observed species richness being estimated at 51.5 using qmp wilcoxon rank-sum test p  1.2 x 10-7 compared to 32.3 using rmp p  1.4 x 10-3 .by integrating microbial cell counting into a sequencing workflowwe demonstrated that microbial loads differ significantly between individuals and that they are associated with specific types of faecalqmp should permit us to assess key microbiome findings founded on relative profiling in a quantitative context.

indeed when screening for taxa that were significantly associated with cell counts only a single positive corre- lation between ruminococcus and microbial load was retained after correcting for multiple testing spearman's r  0.51 false discovery rate fdr  4.4 x 10-2 supplementary table 7.next we used cell counts to transform sequencing data into an absolute microbiome abundance matrix that allowed quantitative microbiome profiling qmp in contrast to relative microbiome pro- filing rmp by modifying sequencing depth rarefying procedures.

detailed assessment of disease-associated microbiome signals produced by both rmp and qmp yielded signatures for crohn's disease that overlapped substantially however these signatures also exhibited noteworthy discrepancies supplementary table 11. among these dis- crepancies we highlight the fact that bacteroides abundances are asso- ciated with crohn' disease only when applying rmp whereas prevotella abundances are found to be decreased in patients with crohn's disease only when using qmp .

assay and species.eukaryotic cell linesstate the source of each eukaryotic cell line used.describe the method of cell line authentication used.report whether the cell lines were tested for mycoplasma contamination.if any of the cell lines used are listed in the database of commonly misidentified cell lines maintained by iclac provide a scientific rationale for their use.

a microbial cell counts and moisture content were negatively correlated in the longitudinal and the validation cohort though not in the study cohort study cohort n  37 spearman's r  -0.12 two-sided fdr  0.56 longitudinal cohort n  132spearman's r  -0.52 two-sided fdr  1.6 x 10-9 validation cohortn  54 spearman's r  -0.56 two-sided fdr  9.1 x 10-5. b microbial cell counts and observed richness correlated mildly study cohort n  40 spearman's r  0.36 two-sided p  2.3 x 10-2.extended data figure 4  faecal microbial loads vary across enterotypes.

the trade-off between bacteroides andprevotella rmp spearman's r  -0.59 two-sided fdr  2 10-4 was no longer significant after correction for microbial load qmp spearman's r  -0.33 two-sided fdr  1.extended data figure 8  false discovery rate and sensitivity in network reconstruction based on qmp and rmp simulated data.

these latter include the often reportedtrade-off between prevotella and bacteroides rmp spearman's r  -0.59 fdr  1.6 x 10-4 which we found to be no longer significant after integrating sample total cell count qmp spearman's r  -0.33 fdr  1 .

sequencing depth did not reflect the total microbial load of a sample spearman's r  0.17 two-sided p  0.28. samples are ranked according to decreasing cell counts.extended data figure 6  illustration of differences between rmp and qmp methodology.

to assess longitudinal variation in abundance profiles we quantified cell counts in stool samples collected from 20 healthy individuals 10 women and 10 men over the course of a week supplementary table 1. individual microbial load profiles varied substantially intraclass rank correlation coefficient icc  0.46. single daily fluctuations load dayx1 - load dayx ranged in magnitude between 1.1 x 108 participant lc02 and1.6 x 1011 cell counts per gram participant lc16 average daily fluc-tuation 3.8 x 1010 cell counts per gram  empha- sizing the need to integrate longitudinal elements in microbiome study designs.

qmp resulted in increased sensitivity and decreased fdr compared to rmp two-sidedt-test p  10-15. for a two- four- and eightfold maximum difference in microbial load qmp fdrs were 11 15 and 22 lower respectivelythan for rmp and qmp true positive discovery rate sensitivity was increased by 10 12 and 15. data points depict repetitions n  50. the body of the box plot represents the first and third quartiles of the distribution and the median line.

genus co-occurrence networks were reconstructed using both rmp and qmp data matrices  supplementary table 9. a far larger number of significantly co-varying genus pairs were detected in the qmp network 76 versus 10 in the rmp network most of which were part of a network module associated with total faecal micro- bial load.

taxa were pre-filtered to exclude taxa unclassified at the genus level and taxa that were present in less than 50 of the samples.benchmarking the qmp and rmp approach for co-abundance network reconstruction using simulated rmp and qmp data.

2 by rarefying to an even number of reads per sample rmp assumes similar genus abundance distributions in samples a and b sample a is therefore sequenced far more intensively than sample b. the resulting profiles therefore poorly reflect the genus distribution in the original samples.given the multiple copies of the 16s rrna gene the relative abundance of'purple' is overestimated.

experimental designsample sizedescribe how sample size was determined.data exclusionsdescribe any data exclusions.replicationdescribe whether the experimental findings were reliably reproduced.randomizationdescribe how samplesorganismsparticipants were allocated into experimental groups.blindingdescribe whether the investigators were blinded to group allocation during data collection andor analysis.note all studies involving animals andor human research participants must disclose whether blinding and randomization were used.statistical parametersfor all figures and tables that use statistical methods confirm that the following items are present in relevant figure legends or in the methods section if additional space is needed.na confirmedthe exact sample size n for each experimental groupcondition given as a discrete number and unit of measurement animals litters cultures etc.a description of how samples were collected noting whether measurements were taken from distinct samples or whether the same sample was measured repeatedlya statement indicating how many times each experiment was replicatedthe statistical tests used and whether they are one- or two-sided note only common tests should be described solely by name more complex techniques should be described in the methods sectiona description of any assumptions or corrections such as an adjustment for multiple comparisonsthe test results e.g.

