they were further examined for produc- tion of catalase oxidase and gram stain retention.on the one hand the gram-positive and catalase-nega- tive lab isolates were tested direct antimicrobial activ- ity against each other against the previously isolated fish spoilage and pathogenic bacteria host-derived bacteria and also against fish spoilage and pathogenic bacteria from other origins non-host-derived bacteria listed below through the spot on the lawn test as described by geis et al.

thanks to their generally recognised as safe gras von wright  and qualified presumption of safety qps status efsa  lactic acid bacteria lab have been widely used as biopreservative agents in seafood products as reported by a plethora of studies calo-mata et al.

plate count agar pca scharlau was used for total aerobic bacteria count de man rogosa and sharpe agar mrs agar difco de man et al.

lactis strains from aquatic fresh water and marine fish intestine and non-aquatic origins against gram-neg-ative bacteria todorov and dicks  lin et al.

world j microbiol biotechnol 2017 3332 doi 10.1007s11274-016-2197-yquantitative analyses of the bacterial microbiota of rearing environment tilapia and common carp cultured in earthen ponds and inhibitory activity of its lactic acid bacteria on fish spoilage and pathogenic bacteriapierre marie kaktcham13  jules-bocamde temgoua1 francois ngoufack zambou1  gloria diaz-ruiz2  carmen wacher2  maria de lourdes perez-chabela3received 19 august 2016  accepted 20 december 2016  published online 7 january 2017c springer sciencebusiness media dordrecht 2017abstract the present study aimed to evaluate the bacte- rial load of water nile tilapia and common carp intestines from earthen ponds isolate lactic acid bacteria lab andassess their antimicrobial activity against fish spoilage and pathogenic bacteria.

san rafael atlixco 186 09340 mexico distrito federal mexicographical abstractbacteriocin detectionendogenous pathogens exogenous pathogensfish intestinal microbiotaendogenous labcfsorganic acids detectionkeywords bacterial load  bacteriocins  fish intestine  lab's antimicrobial activity  pond water  short chain fatty acidsintroductionfish is a global commodity of key significance due to its potential to improve human health and nutrition thanks to their vitamins minerals and polyunsaturated fatty acids contents faowho  mahaffey et al.

it thus constitutes an important and cheap source of animal pro- tein to millions of people in developing world especially sub-saharan african and asian countries other than china and should be made more accessible and affordable to these vulnerable communities as the demand is increasing annually due to population growth and rapid urbanisation kapute  subasinghe  kaktcham et al.

in this regard it has been widely acknowledged that fish- eries and aquaculture have the capacity to positively con- tribute to the eradication of hunger food insecurity and malnutrition allison  world bankfaoworldfish  bene et al.

in tropical countries of sub-saharan africa most fish species could become unfit for consumption due to hot climatic conditions tempera- ture over 30 degc lack of modern preservation infrastruc- tures for refrigeration and freezing knowledge or accessto technology good hygienic or chilling practices as well as the long periods of time elapsed during transportation diop et al.

in this circumstance traditional fresh fish preservation techniques such as dry-salting brining fermentation or their combination are more widespread in these countries tawari and abowei  emere and dibal  diop et al.

yin et al.

ringo  diop et al.

chahad et al.

apart from the studies of diop et al.

among the initiatives taken by the govern- ments as remedy is the intensification of aquaculture tekwombuo  kaktcham et al.

