bcg is purported to work by attaching to fibronectin and integrin a5b1 then inducing an immune response 31. while there appears to be a genetic link between bcg effectiveness and pak1-dependent micropinocytosis 32 one ponders if indigenous bladder microorganisms could be exploited to stimulate a more effective response our studies with fibronectin binding indicate that vaginally-derived and predominant lactobacilli such as lactobacillus iners may be potentially superior at this compared to other species 33. studies using non- vaginally-derived lactobacilli have been undertaken with mixed results 34-36. another factors which may also effect this treatment includes dampening of immune responses by commensal bacterial strains which have been effective at doing this at other mucosal sites 10.how far up the urinary tract do bacteria go and how commonly are they found in the kidneybacteria are not typically thought to be in the kidney during times of health though it is known that some bacteria enterpage 4 of 8the blood stream and kidneys following probiotic dosing and translocation 37-39. during periods of urological imbalance as would be encountered during urinary reflux and infection pyelonephritis flagellated bacteria have the ability to access the upper tract and kidneys.

the potential for bacteria to cause this is one possibility and in murine studies it was shown that the presence of calcium oxalate deposits increases pyelonephritis risk likely due to preferential aggregation of bacteria on and around calcium oxalate crystals 40.technical challengescorrect approaches for sampling the urogenital microbiomemicrobiome sampling from fecal and tissue material is complicated by effective separation of bacteria from the sample matrix and removal of pcr inhibitors.

where bacteria colonize other exposed human surfaces they play a key role in theannals of translational medicine vol 5 no 2 january 2017page 3 of 8homeostasis of the mucosal environment and numerous studies detail these in skin buccal nasal small intestine bowel lung and vaginal interactions 10-16. it therefore makes sense to presume that even while there may be less bacteria in the urinary system than many other colonized sites they still may play a significant role in stimulation and maintenance of the uroepithelium.there is a complex interaction between the anatomy of the urinary tract and nervous system control for which microbes may also have a role in health and disease.

we know that commensal bacteria can easily bind several compounds that are thought to be linked to bladder cancer such as cadmium other heavy metals and pesticides 28. if these bacteria are absent are people at a higher risk of cancer also uropathogenic e. coli can carry pathogenic islands that have been linked to colon cancer in the intestinal tract 2930. the link between recurrent uti and cancer is tenuous but may be a possibility in a subset of bladder cancer cases where certain inflammatory responses may invoke oncogenic responses.bacille calmette-guerin bcg is an attenuated strain of mycobacterium bovis primarily used as a vaccine against tuberculosis.

free dna and dna in dead bacteria on the surface can be made unavailable by pma treatment before tissue homogenization b kidney stones will have some human dna and the surface can be sterilized before pulverization in a sterile bag c bacteria in urine are typically more abundant than samples from other parts of the urinary tract.

optimal processing requires greater than 10 ml in our experience and bacteria should be stored separated by pelleting of the sample by centrifugation d dna extraction kits and their reagents contain trace amounts of bacterial dna not normally a problem in high abundance samples but potentially a menace for the urinary tract e the amount of contaminating background dna is different depending upon the origin of the material and abundance of commensal bacteria.

in the lower urogenital tract such as at the vagina we know that certain bacteria are in fact sentinels and protectors against potentially deleterious microorganisms that may ascend and cause problems such as uti 89. we do not truly understand if or how the microbiome plays a protective role in the bladder but we assume that the lower urogenital tract is the gateway to this region.

however we know little regarding the supporting roles of the non-infection-associated bacteria in these conditions yet we know for many commensal bacteria that their survival is dependent upon living within a bacterial community.

in preliminary studies looking at the microbiome within kidney stones it appears that bacteria can be detected both by culture and non-culture microbiological techniques 40. interestingly preliminary data of five pediatric subjects suggests that bacteria may be detected as far as the kidneys and may actually be present within kidney stones.

urine typically contains high concentrations of salt which allows the preservation of bacteria and nucleic acids for some time though from our laboratory's perspective bacteria should be pelleted and separated from the liquid phase prior to frozen storage.

it is estimated that only a small proportion ofbacterial types from the human body can be cultured 2. however with the more recent extended culture techniques that are being employed for urine developed by hilt and colleagues 3-5 a higher proportion of bacteria are likely to be cultured from the urogenital tract compared to other sites though still likely to underestimate microbial complexity.

this is supported by studies demonstrating probiotic treatment reduces uti recurrence rates 8. the numbers of commensal bacteria in the bladder are thought to be considerably less than the lower genital tract and several still remain to be cultured 6. even though we know bacterial numbers are lower in this region they have the potential to outcompete pathogens for necessary nutrients produce antimicrobial substances and stimulate the immune system.

indeed e. faecalis is the second most common cause of both asymptomatic bacteriuria and symptomatic uti yet does not proliferate nor induce the characteristic signs of utisuprapubic pain urgency frequency and dysuria that are associated with a classic e. coli uti 27. our preliminary investigations indicate that urogenital tract isolates such as enterococci are capable in vitro of producing neuroactive substances.interaction with the host and other microorganisms in cancerthere are many other urinary conditions that would benefit from microbiome analysis such as the role of bacteria in the protection induction and modulation of bladder cancer therapies.

studying the microbiome of the urinary tractremains as more invasive procedures but are less vulnerable to genital contamination.clinical contamination of samplesother tissues and materials kidney stones stents catheters and mesh are often passed through the urogenital tract this may contaminate samples with bacteria.

a the bacterial composition in urine is altered by capture fraction and represent different parts of the urinary tract it is also effected by patient sex and age b entry to the upper urinary tract via a open surgical procedures or even by b minimally invasive technologies still risks bacterial acquisition via the skin and top layers of dermal tissue.

