in this review we summarize the current knowledge on radical sam enzymes catalyzing ripp post-translational modifications and discuss their mechanisms and growing importance notably in the context of the human microbiota.keywords ripps enzyme mechanism natural products iron-sulfur proteins ribosomally synthesized and post- translationally modified peptides radical adomet iron sulfur radical samintroductioncanonical radical sam enzymes possess a radical sam domain defined by the pfam identifier pf04055.

2007b 2008. more recently novel radical sam enzymes have been shown to contain in addition to the radical sam domain a cobalamin-binding domain further expanding the structural and chemical versatility of radical sam enzymes pierre et al.

this review focuses on the recent mechanisticinsights gained on radical sam enzymes catalyzing ripp post-translational modifications and highlights their growing importance notably in the context of the human microbiota.radical sam enzymes involved in ripp methyl transfer reactionsb12-dependent radical sam enzymes tsrm  poycin ripp biosynthetic pathways several radical sam enzymes have been identified as catalyzing unusual methyl transfer reactions.

2015 suggesting they abstract a substrate h-atom figure 3. it hence appears that depending of the carbon-atom to be substituted sp2 vs. sp3 b12-dependent radical sam enzymes have evolved distinctmechanisms.b12-independent radical sam enzymes nosn  tbtimore recently the involvement of another class of radical sam enzymes in methyl transfer reactions has been established.

cysteineresidues appear thus to fulfill this function in many radical sam enzymes and although the mechanism of the epimerases involved in polytheonamide and proteusins biosynthesis has not been characterized these enzymes are likely to use a similar strategy for catalysis.as demonstrated by mutational and spectroscopic studies yydg likely contains in addition to the radical sam cluster an 4fe-4s cluster in its c-terminal region similarly to spasm- domain radical sam enzymes.

2017b rely on radical sam enzymes for their biosynthesis figure 2. the radical sam enzymes involved in these different biosynthetic pathways catalyze a surprisingly wide range of post- translational modifications including methylation thioether and carbon-carbon bond formation complex rearrangements and epimerization.

2009.according to its protein sequence tsrm contains a radical sam domain between residues 247-447 with the canonical radical sam motif c253xxxc257xxc260 and a cobalamin b12- binding domain located in its n-terminus region between the residues 9-151 figure 3. in the presence of sam and cobalamin it was possible to reconstitute in vitro the activity of this enzyme and to demonstrate that tsrm catalyzes methyl transfer to the c2 of tryptophan pierre et al.

2002 are referred as class c radical sam methyl-transferases in contrast to b12-dependent radical sam enzymes which belong to class b methyl-transferases zhang et al.

2016. remarkably hyde catalyzed the radical addition of a carbon-centered radical directly on the thiazolidine sulfur atom without the assistance of other cofactors such as iron-sulfur clusters.since the discovery of subtilosin a several peptides containing ca-thioether bridges have been uncovered including the sporulation killing factor skfa liu et al.

2011. the radical sam enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of these sactipeptides most likely proceed through the same radical-based mechanism which implies the generation of ca centered radical peptide intermediate as shown for alba benjdia et al.

however in a fascinating manner once the ca-centered radical is formed on the substrate peptide and the stereochemistry of the amino acid residue is lost the radical intermediate is not quenched by a cysteine from the substrate benjdia et al.

indeed while pqqe and the kw cyclase likely catalyze the radical addition of a carbon-centered radical on an aromatic residue mftc catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of tyrosine bruender and bandarian 2016b khaliullin et al.

2016 allowing a detailed mechanistic study of this unique enzyme.to conclude the study of radical sam enzymes catalyzing ripp post-translational modifications has shown that these enzymes use common chemical strategies to have access to a wide range of transformations figure 6. for instance radical sam enzymes catalyzing epimerization thioether and c-c bond formations all appear to produce carbon-centered radicalson ca cb or cg.

2016. reactivity of the nitrogen-centered tryptophanyl radical in the catalysis by the radical rea m. c. sit c. s. clayton e. o'connor p. m. whittal r. m. zheng j. et al.

 alhosna benjdia clemence balty and micalis institute chemsybio inra agroparistech universite paris-saclay jouy-en-josas franceedited bylei li indiana university-purdue university indianapolis united statesreviewed bywei ding lanzhou university chinageoff horsman wilfrid laurier university canadacorrespondence alhosna benjdiaolivier berteau specialty section this article was submitted to protein chemistry and enzymologya section of the journal frontiers in chemistryreceived 25 april 2017accepted 11 october 2017published 08 november 2017citation benjdia a balty c and berteau o 2017 radical sam enzymes in the biosynthesis of ribosomally synthesized and post-translationally modified peptides ripps.front.

