from a systems bio-medicine perspective associations between brain imaging and microbiota biomarkers have yet to be developed although establishing such relation- ships could dramatically advance our understanding of the gut-brain axis  see scheme in representing possible approaches to combine imaging and microbiota data.

in the context of precision medicine one can imagine taking decisions on treatment-selection informed by a comparable analysis of the microbiota in an individual thereby maximizing the probability of a positive neurological outcome.this practice is what we term here radiomicrobiomics a process designed to extract quantitative parameters from the gut-brain axis by combining brain imaging and features of the microbiota mining these data to4s.

neuroscienceresearch articleradiomicrobiomics advancing along the gut-brain axis through big data analysissilvia de santis david moratal and santiago canals a instituto de neurociencias consejo superior de investigaciones cienti'ficas universidad miguel herna'ndez sant joan d'alacant 03550 spainb center for biomaterials and tissue engineering universitat politecnica de valencia valencia spainabstract--the gut-brain axis communicates the brain with the gut microbiota a bidirectional conduit that has received increasing attention in recent years thanks to its emerging role in brain development and function.

alter- ations in microbiota composition have been associated to neurological and psychiatric disorders and several studies suggest that the immune system plays a fundamental role in the gut-brain interaction.

in this ''perspective article we discuss recent efforts to combine data on the gut microbiota with the features that can be obtained from the conversion of brain images into mineable data.

published by elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.key words advanced mri microbiota machine learning big data gut-brain axis radiomicrobiomics.introduction the gut brain axis and its influence on the brainthe term gut-brain axis refers to the bidirectional conduit that communicates the brain with the gut two complex systems made up of thousands of millions of cells neurons or bacteria.

gut- brain interactions have received increasing attention in recent years as numerous findings suggest a fundamen- tal influence of the gut microbiota on brain development and function.

alterations in microbiota composition or dysbiosis have been already associated to neurological and psychiatric disorders such as autism depression and hyperphagic behaviors  .corresponding author.

address instituto de neurociencias avenida santiago ramon y cajal sn 03550 sant joan d'alacant alicante spain.e-mail address s. canals.although most evidence has come from preclinical studies important results show that ''humanizing rodent microbiota through fecal transplants from patients also transfers some pathological features of the disease to the recipient animal.

for instance the transplantation of microbiota from major depression patients to microbiota- depleted rats yet not that from age- and sex-matched controls provoked physiological and behavioral features of depression in the transplanted animals  .

significantly the same graph theory tools are being used to character- ize metabolic genomic and proteomic networks of the gut microbiota .

parameters of func- tional connectivity can serve to identify alterations in neu- rological and psychiatric diseases   and altered fmri data have been associ- ated with alterations to the microbiota  .

hence we must ascertain whether brain fingerprints of disease states can be asso- ciated to a set of metabolic genomic or proteomic fea- tures of the patient's microbiota.

1. possible frameworks for combining imaging and microbiota data.

b example of correlation analysis between microstructure and microbiota in regions of interest which can be defined using prior anatomical or functional information.

