rop reoccurred - after a period of transient remission they again met the criteria for treatment listed by etrop guidelines - in 6 children in 10 eyes in two children ranibizumab was injected in one eye.

in this period premature infants with rop progression despite laser treat- ment with persistent plus disease and failure of regression of retinal neovascularisation or patients in whom photocoagulation was performed too late children transferred from other medical centres had intravitreal ranibizumab administered as an adjuvant therapy.the screening examination followed the guidelines of the national specialist team in paediatrics and school medicine and polish ophthalmological society for rop screening 33 weeks of postmenstrual age 1800 g of birth weight or on the request of neonatology specialist due to high risk of rop.

finally the study group included 28 children 53 eyes who underwent laser ablation and as a second step intervention ranibizumab injection and had at least 11 months of follow-up.

three children had ranibizumab injection administered in one eye.

in one of them ranibizumab injection was applied 14 days after laser ablation it was the first patient in whom we used ranibizumab and the long interval between procedures was due to organisational difficulties.

in 22 children 43 eyes in one child ranibizumab was injected in one eye there was no or little improvement in vessel condition after laser therapy.

in 12 22.6 of 53 eyes treated with laser photocoagulation and ranibizumab injection in 3.1 of all treated eyes and in 3 children bilaterally.

further treatment vitrectomy was undertaken in 5 out of 12 eyes 42. three children 5 eyes had aprop 4 children 4 eyes had rop in zone i with plus disease 1 child 1 eye had stage 3 rop in central zone ii and one child 2 eyes was transferred from another centre with advanced vascular proliferation in zone i and plus disease.

visual responses were obtained in 23 of 28 82 treated children also in 5 out of 6 children with unilateral retinal detachment.

in this group of patients one child was diagnosed with aprop three children with rop in zone i with plus disease and two children with rop in the central zone ii with plus disease.

the average time between laser therapy and ranibizumab injection was shorter in this group on average 15 days compared to 31 days in children with primary rop regression.

in our study despite the most advanced forms of rop and the need for a two-stage treatment visual function was preserved in the majority of children 82.1.analysing the comorbidities of 28 enrolled children it needs to be taken into consideration that this group was comprised of seriously ill premature babies who usually develop most severe stages of rop.

the comparison of this group of children with the group of children treated with laser therapy only would be inadequate as the latter were usually in a better general condition.

openreceived 15 may 2017accepted 29 august 2017 published xx xx xxxxranibizumab after laser photocoagulation failure in retinopathy of prematurity rop treatmentanna gotz-wieckowska1 anna chmielarz-czarnocinska1 marta pawlak 1 januszgadzinowski2  jan mazela3the purpose of this study was to investigate the anatomical and functional outcomes of the two-stage treatment of severe retinopathy of prematurity rop using laser photocoagulation and intravitreal ranibizumab injection.

the medical records of 53 eyes of 28 infants treated by conventional laser photocoagulation with deferred intravitreal 0.25 mg0.025 ml ranibizumab injection were analysed.

