bulgaricus or the transplant of fecal microbiota from healthy sub- jects to asd individuals increased overall bacterial diversity and the abundance of bifidobacterium prevotella  and desulfovibrio among other taxa and alleviated gi symptoms and asd core symptoms 22 23. to date all available microbiota composition in asd were mostly assessed from fecal samples 11 13 14 17-21 or directly from the cecum and ileum 15 16. the fact that some microbiota commonly change in independent studies and others are not consistently reported e.g.

administration of 4-eps in healthy mice produced myelination deficits in the pre- frontal cortex and sociability defects 37-39. it was also reported that cclostridia produced propionic acid ppa and its related short-chain fatty acids scfas as fermentation products and ppainfusions in rats induced asd-linked neurochemical and behav- ioral changes 40. these results suggest that bacteria-derived me- tabolites induce neurochemical and structural changes and shape behavioural abnormalities.oral treatment with bifidobacteria fragilis ameliorated asd- related gastrointestinal deficits and associated behavioural ab- normalities behavioral abnormalities in the poly ic-injection model 41. bifidobacteria infantis attenuated pro-inflammatory immune responses and production of serotonergic precursor tryptophan and has potential anti-depressant properties 42 43. considering these results asd groups with decreased ev levelsof gbifidobacterium might have benefits by probiotic treatment withgbifidobacterium.bacterial evs in urine are useful for rapid assessment of bodily microbiota profiles in asdthe microbiota profile assessed from urine evs might reflect a large part of the gut microbiota.

for an example metagenome analysis of bacteria and bacteria-derived ev in stool of inflammatory bowel disease model mice indicated that the ev composition in stool was more drastically altered compared to that of bacterial composition in stool 25. considering that bacteria- derived ev indicates the metabolically or pathologically activated microbiota 25 27 urine ev may be more representative of the host's microbiota activities than stool bacteria.to the best of our knowledge this is the first report character-izing microbiota in asd individuals on the basis of urine evs.

bacteria-derived evs are associated with cyto- toxicity bacterial attachment intercellular dna transfer and inva- sion 24 28 29. gram-positive bacteria also produce evs which contain peptidoglycan lipoteichoic acid virulence proteins dna and rna 30 31. when bacterial evs were intraperitoneally in- jected in mice evs were rapidly distributed throughout the bodybiota 25 26 and indicate the microbiota that are metabolically or pathologically active 25 27.in the present study we investigated bodily microbiota represent- ed by bacterial evs in the urine of asd individuals.

the results of the present study identify markedly altered microbiota profiles in asd relative to non-asd healthy controls and suggest that bacte- rial evs in urine can be served as a useful tool for the evaluation of microbiota composition in asd.materials and methodssubjects and urine sample preparationindividuals who were enrolled at the ewha special education research institute seoul republic of korea or ewha womans university mokdong hospital seoul republic of korea were diagnosed according to the dsm-5 diagnostic criteria by a child and adolescent psychiatrist followed by characterization using the korean childhood autism rating scale k-cars as described previously 32. the k-cars is a well-established scale for the di- agnosis of asd with good agreement with the dsm-5 diagnostic criteria 33. this questionnaire contained 15 items each with 4 symptom scales and all individual scores on each of the questions were summed to obtain the total score.

2.discussionmetagenome analysis of bacterial evs in urine identifies altered microbiota profiles in asdin the present study we demonstrated that bacteria-derived evs in urine were useful for the rapid assessment of microbiota profiles in asd.

the altered microbiota compositions identified from urine evs of asd were partially consistent with microbiota compositions assessed from fecal samples reported in recent stud- ies.

the changes in these genus members are broadly consistent with the results of previous reports assessedtable 4. summary and comparison of microbiota characterized in the present study with those identified from fecal samples in previous studiesthe microbiota whose percent composition were significantly different in asd subjects as characterized in the present study were compared with those identified from fecal samples in previous studies.

nonetheless we do believe that the microbiota profile assessed from urine evs is not likely a sim- ple alternative for microbiota profile assessed from stool.

generally speaking microbiota in stool represents the intestinal compartment whereas microbiota in urine or blood reflects the whole body including the intestinal compartments oral system respiratory system and urinary system.

it was reported that the metabolites of intestinal microbiota activities including phenyllactate p-cresol sulfate concentrations and serotonin in urine plasma and stool of mouse pups under- nourished by timed separation from lactating dams then resumed ad libitum nursing were different from each other although they had some correlations 44 45. similar to metabolite profiles of intestinal microbiota activities available information suggests that metagenome analysis assessed from these sources might be closely related but represent some distinct landscapes.

con- sidering the general difficulties in repeated sampling microbiota sources from asd individuals particularly low functioning indi- viduals with asd or toddlers with asd using urine as a sample source would be a great advantage for rapid and repeated assess- ments of microbiota changes under varying physiological contexts compared to the use of blood and feces.

pissn 1226-2560  eissn 2093-8144original articlerapid assessment of microbiota changes in individuals with autism spectrum disorder using bacteria-derived membrane vesicles in urineyunjin lee1 jin-young park1 eun-hwa lee1 jinho yang2 bo-ri jeong2yoon-keun kim2 ju-young seoh3 sohyun lee4 pyung-lim han15 and eui-jung kim61departments of brain and cognitive sciences 4special education and 5chemistry and nano science ewha womans university seoul 03760 korea 2md healthcare inc. seoul korea departments of 3microbiology and 6psychiatry college of medicine ewha womans university seoul 07985 koreareceived august 2 2017 revised september 13 2017accepted september 24 2017to whom correspondence should be addressed.

eui-jung kimtel 82-2-2650-5163 fax 82-2-2650-0984 e-mail pyung-lim hantel 82-2-3277-4130 fax 82-2-3277-3419 e-mail introductionautism spectrum disorder asd is a group of neurodevelop- mental disabilities characterized by two domains of core symp- toms persistent social deficits and restricted repetitive patterns of behavior 1. most individuals with asd suffer from various be- havioral and physical symptoms including abnormal preferences regarding specific foods and problems in the digestive system 2 3.copyright c experimental neurobiology 2017.this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the creative commons attribution non-commercial license which permits unrestricted non-commercial use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.approximately 7080 of asd subjects have food selectivity and restricted food interests due to the texture smell or color of specific foods and food intolerance 3 4. the limited food intake behav- ior in asd subjects leads to health problems including nutrition imbalance and gastrointestinal gi symptoms such as diarrhea and constipation 2 5 6. furthermore studies of a positive cor- relation between gi symptoms and asd have been reported the c-met promoter variant rs1858830 is associated with asd and gi symptoms and the serum level of hepatocyte growth factor hgf that binding to the c-met receptor is correlated with severity of gi symptom in asd subjects 7-9.several lines of evidence indicate that asd patients have altered microbiota composition in the gut compared to healthy subjects 10-21. the occupancy of the phyla firmicutes fusobacteria verrucomicrobia  and actinobacteria was decreased whereas bacteroidetes and proteobacteria were increased in asd groups 13 21. more specifically in asd the genera bifidobacterum and akkermansia were found to be decreased in asd while lactobacillus was increased 17 18. furthermore the treatment with a probiotics mix containing streptococcus thermophiles  bifidobacterium breve b. longum b. infantis and lactobacillus acidophilus l. plantarum l. paracasei  and l. delbrueckii subsp.

13 15 19 increases the pos- sibility of highly complex dynamics in bodily microbiota compo- sition in asd individuals under different physiological contexts.gram-negative bacteria secrete extracellular membrane vesiclesevs also called nanovesicles to communicate with host cells 24 and are detected in stools and also in urine and blood serum 25- 27. evs secreted by gram-negative bacteria contain dna rna proteases phospholipases adhesins toxins and immunomodula- tory compounds.

