Sampling size and the partial confounding of region by cattle type all the cattle in California were dairy-type cattle whereas the cattle inthe other 2 regions were beef-type cattle limit exten- sive formal comparison.

These comparisons among observed groups of cattle raise the possibility of different liver abscess rate composition by area and rearing methods which in turn may lead to more tar- geted approaches to reduce abscess rates.SummaryManagement of liver abscesses in feedlot cattle con- tinues to be an important priority for the North American beef cattle industry.

The objective of this study was to characterize purulent material collected from liver abscess in beef cattle produced in different production systems in 3 cattle producing states in the United States using 16S rRNA gene sequencing.

Cattle included in the study were a mix of dairy-type cattle California and beef-type cattle Colorado and Texas.

Rapid Communication 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid characterization of liver abscesses in feedlot cattle from three states in the United States1M.

An analysis-of- similarities test was conducted on Euclidean distances to assess differences between cattle treated and not treat- ed with tylosin as well as to assess differences between geographic regions.

To our knowledge this is the first publication describing the complex community of liver purulent material using next generation sequencing in cattle.

2017.954520-4525doi10.2527jas2017.1743INTRODUCTIONThe occurrence of a liver abscesses in feedlot cattle is associated with negative performance and economic impacts.

It is estimated that liver abscesses observed at prevalence of 20.9 of fed cattle harvest- ed in the United States can decrease carcass value by US20 to 80 Brown and Lawrence 2010 McKeith1This research was funded by a grant from the National BeefCheckoff.2Contributed equally.3Corresponding author Received May 22 2017.Accepted July 27 2017.et al.

Therefore this study characterizes microbial communities in the purulent materials of liver abscesses using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing.MATERIALS AND METHODSCattle PopulationSixteen pens of feedlot cattle average number of animals in pen 141 from 5 different feedlots in the United States 1 feedlot in California 1 feedlot in Texas and 3 feedlots in Colorado were used for this study.

