there is risk of nutritional inadequacy with implementation of any exclusion diet or dietary restriction.5 indeed recent data demonstrate that more than half of patients following a low fodmap diet did not meet their recommended intakes of calcium and iron although values were not dissimilar to the healthy population on a habitual diet.

of those 71 continued to have satisfactory relief at 1 year post- reintroduction and 68 continued to avoid high fodmap foods at least 50 of the time.8 another study providing a follow-up questionnaire at 6 months post-treatment found that those who had remained on a strict or attenuated diet at 6 months had a significantly greater symptomatic improvement at 6 weeks com- pared with those who had abandoned the diet although information on the level of reintroduction was not assessed.9 those who had abandoned the diet were likely to have been unresponsive within the initial 6-week strict elimination phase.9 it is key that those who do not respond to the low fodmap diet should not be encouraged to continue on the dietary restrictions.

patients with diabetes may need to consider carbohydrate sources to assist in blood glucose control and therefore the choice of challenge foods in particular for the fructan challenge should be chosen carefully.finally anxiety is common in patients with fbd and hence the patients' level of anxiety toward completing food challenges is important to consider.

importantly patients are encouraged not to remain on a strict low fodmap diet long-term and many patients maintain symptom improvement with a relaxed moderate fodmap restriction.

fodmap subtypes that are less well tolerated may also be reintroduced but dosage and frequency of consump- tion need to be individualized.additional challenges that face dietitians include consideration of patients with multiple dietary restrictions such as in vegetarians or patients with diabetes who are simultaneously following a low fodmap diet.

the re- challenge phase can finally provide patients with some certainty around their dietary intolerances of which patients have often struggled for many years.patients are encouraged to remain on the strict low fodmap diet while completing the challenges.

further data on the degree of dietary fodmap restriction required for individ- ual patients would be beneficial to help tailor the diet more specif- ically to the individual patients' needs.

patients requiring the diet long-term then follow a modified fodmap diet based on their dietary tolerance found while challenging.2 although this re- challenge phase is conducted worldwide and anecdotally has success in relaxing the approach and maintaining symptomatic improvement limited data exist to define the re-challenge process.

care should be taken when working with patients who have additional dietary requirements such as vegetarians patients with diabetes or those with additional food intolerances.

the authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.abstractthe low fermentable oligosaccharides disaccharides monosaccharides and polyols fodmap diet has good evidence for use in the treatment of patients with irritable bowel syndrome.

the low fodmap diet is now included as first-line therapy and has been shown to provide symptom improvement in approximately 68-76 of individuals.1 symptom improvement generally occurs following 3-4 weeks on the restrictive phase of the diet2 although the length of time required and degree of symptom improvement can vary between patients.

one study assessing ibs-specific qol found 19 patients with diarrhea- predominant ibs had improved qol during a 6-week trial of the low fodmap diet.

follow-up questionnaires provided to 100 patients at 6-18 months following initial education showed that 62 had satisfactory relief on the low fodmap diet.

further long- term data on the re-challenge phase are needed regarding how challenges are carried out amount of high fodmap foods patients are able to reintroduce back into the diet and the effects this has on nutritional adequacy microbiota composition and qol.undertaking the re-challenge process.

for example protein sources can be limited during the restrictive phase for patients following a vegetarian diet owing to the high fodmap content of legumes.

