however the peptide neither affected the m2 macrophages and the anti-inflammatory cytokine secretion in the colon nor the gut microbial dysbiosis observed in colitic mice.during gut inflammation macrophages infiltrate gut tissue in response to pro-inflammatory proteins .

these findings suggest that hcts treatment attenuates the severity of inflammatory relapse through the modulation of the m1 macrophages and the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines.keywords inflammatory bowel disease chromogranin-a catestatin gut inflammation m1 and m2 macrophage gut dysbiosisintroductioninflammatory bowel diseases ibds are well-known intestinal disorders that are characterized by chronic relapse and remitting stage of inflammation of gastrointestinal tract .

significantly reduced colonic pro-inflammatory cytokines following reactivation of quiescence colitis  but treatment did not improve colonic anti-inflammatory cytokines .effect of hcts on colonic m1 and m2 macrophages markersmediatorsmonocytes and macrophages regulate gut inflammation and the majority of tissue infiltrating cells following reactivation of quiescence colitis are m1 macrophage and are the main source of il-6 il-1b and tnf- a .

these macrophages possess distinct characteristics compared to their tissue resident macrophages counterparts and are classified as m1 macrophages  .

m2 macrophages in ibd patients also have defective functioning which is supported by an in vitro study demonstrating that blood macrophages collected from cd patients and stimulated to m2 macrophages resulted in altered expression of cd40 and cd163 compared to healthy cells .

the aims of this study were to determine 1 whether hcts treatment could attenuate the reactivation of inflammation in adult mice with previously established chronic colitis 2 whether this effect is mediated through macrophages or the gut microbiota.

in vitro peritonealmacrophages isolated from naive mice and treated with hcts 10-5 m 12 h were exposed to either lipopolysaccharide 100 ngml 12 h to polarize m1 macrophages or to il-4il-13 20 ngml to polarize m2 macrophages.

in addition to this immune dysregula- tion in ibd and experimental colitis  gut inflammation is associated with changes in the prohormone chromogranin-a chga-producing enterochromaffin ec cells  but the impact of this modification on the immune activation during development of gut inflammation is unclear.chga is a member of the secretory granin protein family localized at 14q32 of the human genome and it consists of eight exons and seven introns.

for example gut microbiota can activate toll-like receptors tlrs in the gut epithelium which in turn can affect the expression of antimicrobial peptides such as angiogenins  .

in addition to the innate immune system and the macrophages gut microbiota can also control the host's adaptive immune system through t cell receptor ab-positive intraepithe-lial lymphocytes t regulatory cells and t helper 17 .

moreover we showedthat hcts treatment could alter the gut microbial composition in the naive mice .the aim of our study was to demonstrate the effect of hcts on chronic gut inflammation.

conversely hcts 10-5m treatment neither affected the expression of m2 macrophages markers arg1 and ym1  nor the expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines tgfb and il10 .effect of hcts on gut microbiotagut microbial dysbiosis is evident in both uc and experimental colitis mice  .

these m2 macrophages produce il-10 which maintains the quiescent state of macrophages in the intestine.

alteration of the gut microbial homeostasis is known as gut dysbiosis and it is evident in uc patients .

however whether the gut dysbiosis is causal or an outcome of gut inflammation in ibd and in colitic mice is remains controversial.

