Curr Infect Dis Rep 2017 19 49 httpsdoi.org10.1007s11908-017-0603-8Recent Issues in Pediatric Clostridium difficile InfectionJason A. Clayton1  Philip Toltzis 1Published online 7 November 2017 Springer ScienceBusiness Media LLC 2017AbstractPurpose of Review We focus on two recent aspects of Clostridium difficile infection CDI in children namely the emergence of community-associated CDI CA-CDI and the incidence and prevention of recurrent CDI.Recent Findings Current surveys suggest that a large propor- tion of all pediatric CDI is acquired in the community.

One of two recent population-based sur- veys of CA-CDI in children this one is based in Minnesota indicating a prominence of this diagnosis in pediatrics.Kim J Smathers SA Prasad P Leckerman KH Coffin S Zaoutis T. Epidemiological features of Clostridium difficile-associated disease among inpatients at children's hospitals in the United States 2001- 2006.

Diagnostic accuracy of real-time polymerase chain reaction in detection of Clostridium difficile in the stool samples of patients with suspected Clostridium difficile infection a meta-analysis.

An ad hoc Clostridium difficile surveillance working G. Recommendations for surveillance of Clostridium difficile- associated disease.

Preventative strategies for recurrent CDI in adults namely pulse and taper antibiotic dosing use of anti-CDI drugs with mild effect on the colonic microbiome fecal mi- crobiota transplantation and passive immune therapy current- ly are being tested in children.Summary Future studies are required to better characterize com- munity acquisition of CDI in children and to define the safety and effectiveness of preventative strategies for recurrent CDI.Keywords Clostridium difficile .

200536694911079-84.Benson L Song X Campos J Singh N. Changing epidemiology of Clostridium difficile-associated disease in children.

Clostridium difficile in children colonisation and disease.

The epidemiology of Clostridium difficile infection in children a population-based study.

The role of Clostridium difficile and viruses as causes of nosocomial diarrhea in children.

Clostridium difficile infection in hospitalized children in the United States.

