The potential application of microbial fermentation is enormous both in health and in biotechnology and will be an impor- tant area of research and production in the coming decades.

The focus of this review is to look at advances in the past three years in the field of microbial fermenta- tion with a focus on food and added health benefits of fermentation including extraneous commercial and legislative factors impacting the field .Fermentation starter cultures and by-products of fermentationStarter cultures which carry out the fermentation process are used to ensure consistency in commercial products by using known species with desirable traits such as a high rate of acidification through the production of lactic acid andor the secretion of secondary metabolites into the fermentate matrix .

The IDF are currently involved in investigating product labelling with regard to nutritional information and health claims and how these affect the consumer's choice of different products.

This is in stark contrast to the health claims made for most commercial fermented dairy products that indicate the benefits of using safe known starter cultures.PrebioticsIn 2008 prebiotics were defined by the International Scientific Association for Probiotics and Prebiotics ISAPP as a selectively fermented ingredient that results in specific changes in the compo- sition andor activity of the gastrointestinal microbiota thus con- ferring benefits upon host health'' a definition that is currently being further revised by ISAPP.

Dietary interventions in adoles- cents of more fermented foods containing beneficial brain bacteria could help prevent the onset of depression and anxiety among other mental health issues which are becoming more prevalent.National recommendationsFermented foods have been consumed worldwide for thousands of years before any direct health benefits were truly understood.

Since December 2012 in Europe labelling of a probiotic was banned along with the use of health claims in any product without receiving approval from EFSA which has yet to approve any probiotic health claim.

The selection of defined starters depends on specific phenotypes that benefit the product by guaranteeing shelf life and ensuring safety texture and flavour.

The potential to prevent or even treat disease through the fermentation of food is a medically and commercially attractive goal and is showing increasing promise.

The first evidence of dairy fermentation exists from approximately 7000 years ago where early Europeans are thought to have produced cheese.

The use of these bacteria in fermen- tations to produce functional foods has greatly increased in recent years.

