cited evidence of tbet inducing il-23r expression more recent evidence suggests that rorgt is the principal transcription factor required for this and that tbet in fact can inhibit il-23r expression.

would speak against a role for the expression of surface b27 multimers in pathogenesis since protective erap1 alleles increase their expression.

thus some feature of the expression of b27 led to changes in the microbiota by 10 weeks and analysis of cytokine mrna expression in the gut revealed increases in tnfaand il-1b together with increases in anti-microbial peptides.

the debate on how hla-b27 is implicated in inflammation is also considered together with recent and contradictory evidence on the effects of the peptide-trimming enzyme erap1 on b27 expression and hence susceptibility to spondylitis.

other characteristics also pointed to this capacity such as the expression of ccr6 the cells described by sherlock et al.

the new report emphasises the role of a gd subset in relation to il-23r expression and hence an ability to respond to raised il-23 levels and therefore il-17 production.

whilst this might suggest that inflammation is needed for the effects of the snp on expression levels to be manifest levels in as patients were independent of disease activity.

proportions of tbet cells were also elevated in as especially cd8 cells and levels of expression of tbet were also higher in these cells.

however precisely how tbet expression favours the emergence of a poten- tially pathogenic cd8 t cell population producing both il-17 and ifng is not yet clear.

since il-23 is central to the spa disease in skg mice and is also implicated in human spa with both genetic and therapeutic evidence this paradoxical effect of tbet on il-23r expression is puzzling and requires further work.

likewise the expression of tbet by the entheseal populations described above would be worth investigating.how does hla-b27 influence susceptibility to spahow do erap1 polymorphisms interact with b27three main ideas have dominated thinking on how hla-b27 exerts its profound effect on susceptibility to spa.

would the polymorphisms in erap1 change the repertoire of peptides presented by b27 affect assembly in the er and hence misfolding or alter the expression of surface multimers it was reported that alleles of erap1 that afforded protection from as showed defective protease function.

thisappeared to be evidence against a role for either er stress or the expression of multimers in spa pathogenesis since poorly func- tioning erap1 would be predicted to impair b27 assembly and hence increase er stress.

likewise poor assembly of b27 with optimal peptides might lead to increased expression of unusual forms of b27 at the cell surface.

this new report would appear to comprehensively contradict the previous findings and the explanation for the differences between the two studies is not yet clear.the effects of decreasing erap1 function in vitrostudies on the effects of in vitro silencing of erap1 expression to mimic the effects of hypofunctional alleles such as r528k have also reported disparate findings.

