toll-like receptors are expressed by var- ious cells of the immune system including dendritic cells dcs macrophages t cells and b cells and also by epithelial cells .a variety of bacterial products have been reported as tlr ligands such as lipopolysaccharide lps from gram-negative bacteria peptidoglycans from gram-positive bacteria or fla- gellin derived from flagellated bacterial species .

scfa are strong modulators of the intestinal immune system and their effects are coordinated by specific metabolicprograms of immune cells .the intestinal microbiota is also involved in the synthesis and the metabolism of various vitamins such as b-group vitamins and vitamin k. on the other hand vitamins have been shown to modulate the microbiota and to act directly on the immune sys- tem vitamin a and its down-stream metabolite retinoic acid ra are involved in multiple immune processes such as treg homeostasis and iga antibody production  .food componentspro- prebioticsmicrobiota exchangeil-10metabolites bacterial productscytokinesfood componentsfig.

even though it has proven effective understanding the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which een promotes its benefi- cial effects will help to improve the outcome of pediatric ibd by creating optimized formulae.fecal microbiota therapythe idea of modulating dysbiosis to treat ibd gave rise to the proposal of direct microbiota transplantation with a donor mi- crobiota as a potential therapeutic option fig.

this reinforces the idea that a deregulated immune response to intestinal microbiota is involved in ibd pathogenesis .in this section we will refresh the knowledge on the intes- tinal microbiota how it interacts with the immune system and furthermore the role of the key cytokines il-23 il-17 il-22 il-10 which result from this interaction in the context of ibd.intestinal microbiotathe human body coexists with around 1013 bacterial organ- isms which colonize different sides of the body such as theintestine and the skin .

thus ra might impact ibd via il-17 and il-22-mediated effects.therapeutic opportunities proprebiotics diet intervention and fecal microbiota therapyto maintain homeostasis a fine-tuned balance between im- mune tolerance and immune activation toward the intestinal microbiota is critical.

standardized microbiota samples that can be ingested in the form of a pill might display a future option.future perspectivestaken together the abovementioned studies point to the fact that the local immune response to intestinal microbiota could be one key mechanism involved in ibd pathogenesis.

httpsdoi.org10.1007s00281-017-0658-5recipe for ibd can we use food to control inflammatory bowel diseasemario witkowski 1  marco witkowski 2  nicola gagliani 345  samuel huber3received 11 july 2017  accepted 18 october 2017  published online 9 november 2017 the authors 2017. this article is an open access publicationabstract the mucosal immune system and the microbiota in the intestinal tract have recently been shown to play a key role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease ibd.

in this review we discuss the interaction of the intestinal mucosal immune system and the intestinal microbiota in the context of ibd.

the first is to target the microbiota directly by microbiota trans- plantation the second is to target the microbiota indirectly by diet fig.

fecal microbiota trans- fer has also shown therapeutic efficacy in inflammatory dis- eases that are associated with an altered microbiota such as diabetes and obesity .data evaluating fmt in ibd still present some limitations.

more detailed analysis revealed that certain bacteria species protect from ibd while others appear to be pathogenic.various studies demonstrated a marked reduction of firmicutes within the microbiota of patients with ibd -.

in particular adhesive-invasive e. coli aiec is enriched in the inflamed ileal mucosa of ibd patients and might trigger local inflammation  .moreover sulfate-reducing bacteria srb most of which belong to the deltaproteobacteria class proteobacteria phy- lum are increased in ibd and have been shown to promote a chemically induced colitis in mice underlining a possible role in ibd pathogenesis  .

these cells are a subtype of effector t helper cells which express high levels of il-17a and il-17f and which are highly enriched in the inflamed mucosal tissue of ibd patients  .

both adaptive immune cells and cells of the innate immune system can produce il-22 and early studies demon- strated that adaptive and innate il-22 protects from ibd .

compared to effector t cells such as th17 cells which are reliant on glucose metabolism the generation of reg- ulatory cd4 t cells has been shown to be selectively dependent on lipid oxygenation .

