in addition b-cell function was assessed by insulin resistance index following quantification of insulin rat insulin elisa mercodia in serum bleeds at 0 and 15 min.

these data indicate that recombinant incretin-secreting microbes may offer a novel and safe means of managing cholesterol metabolism and diet induced dyslipidaemia as well as insulin sensitivity in metabolic dysfunction.glp-1 is a short conserved mammalian peptide produced by enteroendocrine l-cells that can stimulate insulin production to lower postprandial glucose levels in patients with type-2 diabetes t2d.

inset graph displays kglp-1 production during culture of pnz red and glp1 blue microbes as assessed by elisa of cell-free media c insulin production by rinm5f-beta cells treated with lactobacillus paracasei nfbc 338 pnz or glp1 filtrate preparations or pure kglp-1 and glp-1 peptides 50um.

conversely extended glp-1 microbe intervention improved glucose- dependent insulin secretion glucose metabolism and cholesterol metabolism compared to the high- fat control group.

e ipgtt glucose levels f ipgtt glucose auc g ipgtt insulin levels t0 and t15 h ipgtt insulin auc i itt glucose levels j itt glucose auc.

the equation used to calculate insulin resistance ir index was as followsir index  glucose area under the curveauc  insulin auc  10-41intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test.

in addition b-cell function was assessed by ir index following quantification of insulin mouse insulin elisa mercodia in plasma bleeds 0 and 15 min.

trunk serum was analysed by elisa for levels of insulin mercodia mouse insulin elisa cat no.

however neither glp1 glycaemia nor glycaemia auc were found to be significantly lower at any time point when compared to the pnz group.bloods were also drawn to assess insulin concentration at 0 min fasting and 15 min of the ipgtt.

interestingly while all high-fat fed groups were statistically similar prior to ip at 15 min glp1 mice displayed a significantly elevated insulin level when compared to the hfc p  0.01 fig.

curiously both glp1 p  0.0001 and pnz intervention p  0.0001 reduced blood glucose levels in the first two time points of the insulin tolerance test itt fig.

at week 22 of feedingweek 10 of intervention hfc n  7 pnz n  14 glp1 n  13 and lfc n  7 animals were again assessed for glucose and insulin tolerance.

three week old c57bl6 mice were acquired from envigo uk and maintained in a 12 h light dark cycle and on a high-fat diet open source diets d12492 - 60 kcal from fat research diets inc. ad libitum for 25 weeks in total and for the final 12 weeks exposed to 109 cfumouse.d-1 of glp1 n  14 pnz n  14 or no intervention hfc n  14. an additional group of animals were maintained on a low-fat control diet lfc n  14 open source diets d15072701 - 10 kcal from fat and equal parts corn starch and sucrose research diets inc. concurrently acting as a negative control for development of obesity and insulin resistance.

paracasei nfbc 388 or alternative metabolites derived from the microbe.extended glp-1-secreting microbe intervention improves glucose metabolism and insulin sensitivity.

these results indicate that the glp-1-secreting probiotic has the potentialfigure 4. glp-1-expressing lactobacillus paracasei improves glucose  cholesterol metabolism while promoting glucose-dependant insulin secretion.

