thus altricial birds have higher potential for parental influence on gut microbiota through salivary transfer and a longer period of nest occupa- tion whereas precocial parents have little direct influence on their offspring's microbiota aside from exposure to bacteria on feathers during brooding and leading young to brood-rearing areas.in addition to uncertainty about the timing of initial recruit- ment of microbiota the early successional dynamics of the avian gut microbiota are unclear.

we conclude that guts of shorebird chicks are likely void of microbiota prior to hatch but that stable gut microbiome establishes as early as 3 days of age probably from environmental inocula.keywords 16s rrna gene bacteria calidris gut microbiota qpcr precocial youngintroductiongut microbiota contribute to maintaining organismal health through nutrient uptake leser and molbak  detoxification of digestive byproducts kohl  energy and fat metabolism velagapudi et al.

tel 7854776545 e-mail one sentence summary shorebird embryos hatch with negligible gut microbiota and chicks acquire a stable bacterial community within three days of hatchingeditor cindy nakatsuabstractgut microbiota play a key role in host health.

we evaluated whether precocial chicks from three species of arctic-breeding shorebirds acquire gut microbiota before or after hatching and then documented the rate and compositional dynamics of accumulation of gut microbiota.

thus maternal effects strongly control theinitial composition of gut microbiota in mammalian offspring stevens and hume .it remains unclear whether birds can acquire gut microbiota while inside the egg and how microbial communities accumu- late after initial recruitment.

our objec- tives were to i test the 'head start' and 'sterile egg' hypothe- ses and determine if precocial chicks of arctic shorebirds recruit gut microbiota before or after hatching and ii assess succes- sional trajectories in the gut microbiota of shorebird chicks af- ter hatching.

overall our sequence data indicated that minimal microbiota were present in the gastrointestinal systems or yolk sacs of shorebird embryos before hatching of the eggs.establishment of the microbiotawe collected 45 fecal samples from 1-10 day old chicks of dun- lin and red phalaropes at utqiag.vik ak in 2013. despite the dif- ferent habitats used by dunlin and red phalaropes to rear their chicks fecal samples of chicks did not differ in the abundance and variance of their microbiota f227  5.5 p  0.16. we pooled samples for further analyses to increase sample sizes.

an inocula- tion route via diet was supported by our ordination results which showed that the microbiota of young chicks were more similar to the environmental microbiota in community composition than old chicks.a rapid increase in the microbial abundance within the first 3 days after hatching may be enhanced by the supply of yolk to the chick gastrointestinal tract.

mammals acquire gut microbiota during birth but timing of gut microbial recruitment in birds is unknown.

contrary to earlier reports of microbial recruitment before hatching in chickens quantitative pcr and illumina sequence data indicated negligible microbiota in the guts of shorebird embryos before hatching.

environmental exposure early in life can shape the gut microbiota and aid in defending against pathogens while the immune system is immature bar-shira sklan and friedman .

in mammals maternal vaginal and fecal microbe transmission are crucial in the recruitment and establishment of microbiota in the digestive tract of a neonate palmer et al.

the 'sterile egg hypoth- esis' predicts that microbiota recruitment in the avian gut oc- curs after hatch because the chorion membrane maintains a sterile environment within the egg van der wielen et al.

the two hypotheses differ in the maternal contribution to gut microbiota of offspring and in the source of inoculum.

in contrast if gut micro- biota are absent in embryos as posited by the 'sterile egg' hy- pothesis chicks must recruit microbiota from the environment after hatch.developmental strategies after hatching vary within birds and range from chicks hatching with complete dependence on their parents like most altricial species to superprecocial species that are independent of parental care after hatching.

