some studies suggest that long-term art partially restores the microbiota to a level between untreated hiv and hiv-uninfected 4 5 7. others suggest art has little impact 6 8 or even disrupts the microbiota 7. takennowak et al.page 3together the stage of hiv disease and the timing and duration of art may impact the microbiota differently.the objective of this study was to evaluate the rectal microbiota among three groups hiv- uninfected untreated hiv and art-treated hiv.materials and methodsstudy design and populationour cross-sectional rectal microbiota study was nested in the abuja nigeria site of the parent cohort trustrv368.

treatment with an antibiotic co-trimoxazole in conjunction with art may have contributed to this shift.keywordsantiretroviral therapy co-trimoxazole prevotella alpha diversity relative abundanceintroductionthe rectal microbiota may be important in driving mucosal immune responses that defend against infectious pathogens and regulate local inflammation during receptive anal intercourse 1. hiv has been implicated in reducing rectal microbiota diversity shifting the composition of commensals enhancing microbial translocation and disrupting local immunity 2-8. while several studies have focused on the upper gastrointestinal tract microbiota virtually no data are available from sub-saharan africa and only a few studies 9 10 have begun to characterize the rectal microbiota.the rectal microbiota is dominated by 5 phyla firmicutes bacteroidetes proteobacteria actinobacteria and fusobacteria ranked in order of abundance.

statistically significant shifts in relative abundance of rectal microbiota for the hiv treated group included a decrease in the most abundant bacteria prevotella p0.02 and an increase in pathogenic bacteria peptoniphilus p0.04 finegoldia p0.01 anaerococcus p0.03 and campylobacter p0.03 as compared to the other groups.conclusions--untreated hiv infection does not significantly alter the rectal microbiota whereas prior treatment is associated with a shift towards a more pathogenic pattern of microbiota.

found co- trimoxazole was only significantly associated with an altered rectal microbiota in one of six alpha and beta diversity measures 10. another study among hiv-exposed uninfected infants found co-trimoxazole was associated with an increase in blood levels of lipopolysaccharide a marker of microbial translocation and poor gut integrity but not a direct measure of rectal microbiota changes 38.alternatively hiv treatment itself may negatively impact the rectal microbiota.

a decrease in species diversity after art initiation was observed in two longitudinal studies one in humans 7 and the other in macaques 39. other studies suggest that art impacts the phylum bacteroidetes 4 6 and in particular the genus prevotella as opposed to bacteroides 5 7. bacteroidetes may be an important commensal because it is preserved in hiv-positive elite controllers 7 and is depleted among those with inflammatory bowel disease 40. the dominance of prevotella may be attributed to sexual behavior 8 or a diet comprised mostly of simple carbohydrates 41.there was also an increase in more gram-positive anaerobic bacteria such as peptoniphilus finegoldia and anaerococcus all of which have been previously found to be associated with vaginal or genitourinary tract infections 42 and were reduced in the penile microbiota after circumcising hiv-uninfected men 43. additionally there was an increase in campylobacter in the gut microbiota of art-treated hiv-infected individuals 6. further studies of the influence of anaerobic species on local immunity and long term susceptibility to stis are needed.the rectal microbiota did not differ between untreated hiv and hiv-uninfected participants but it is possible that hiv infection was too recent within this cohort to observe long-term shifts.

participants with rectal gonorrhea had increased abundance of prevotella compared to those without gonorrhea median iqr 29.3 16.2-43.1 vs. 22.7 14.2-33.4 p0.05.nowak et al.page 5discussionnigerian msm with untreated hiv did not differ in alpha diversity or composition of their rectal microbiota as compared to hiv-uninfected msm.

pubmed 24586144nowak et al.page 7nowak p troseid m avershina e barqasho b neogi u holm k et al.

2017 march 27 316 857-862. doi10.1097qad.0000000000001409.rectal microbiota among hiv-uninfected untreated hiv and treated hiv-infected men who have sex with men msm in nigeriarebecca g. nowak1 soren m. bentzen2 jacques ravel3 trevor a. crowell45 wuese dauda6 bing ma3 hongjie liu7 william a. blattner1 stefan d. baral8 and manhattan e. charurat1 on behalf of the trustrv368 study group1institute of human virology university of maryland school of medicine baltimore md usa2university of maryland greenebaum comprehensive cancer center and department of epidemiology and public health university of maryland school of medicine baltimore md usa3institute for genome sciences university of maryland school of medicine baltimore md usa4u.s.

military hiv research program walter reed army institute of research silver spring md usa5henry m. jackson foundation for the advancement of military medicine bethesda md usa6institute of human virology nigeria abuja nigeria7school of public health university of maryland college park md8johns hopkins bloomberg school of public health baltimore md usaabstractobjective--untreated advanced hiv infection alters the gut microbiota but it is unclear whether antiretroviral therapy art reverses these changes.

we compared the composition of the rectal microbiota among three groups of men who have sex with men msm hiv-uninfected untreated hiv and art-treated hiv-infected.corresponding author rebecca nowak phd 725 w. lombard street baltimore md 21201 tel 410-706-4642 fax 410-706-1944 the trust study group is constituted as follows principal investigators william blattner and man charurat ihv university of maryland baltimore md usaco-investigators alash'le abimiku sylvia adebajo julie ake stefan baral trevor crowell charlotte gaydos lindsay hughes babajide keshinro jerome kim hongjie liu jennifer malia nelson michael ogbonnaya njoku rebecca nowak helen omuh ifeanyi orazulike sheila peel merlin robb cristina rodriguez-hart sheree schwartzinstitutions institute of human virology at the university of maryland school of medicine ihv johns hopkins bloomberg school of public health jhsph walter reed army institute of research u.s. military hiv research program mhrp department of defense walter reed program nigeria wrp institute of human virology nigeria ihvn international centre for advocacy for the right to health icarh population council pop councilconflicts of interest and source of funding tc has received a speaker fee from gilead sciences.contributors wb and mc designed the trust study.

early studies suggested a decline in species richness and increase in a more pathogenic phyla fusobacteria among individuals with advanced hiv infection who are not on antiretroviral therapy art 9 10. fusobacteria harbor virulence factors that potentially disrupt local immunity 11-14 which may contribute to the pathogenesis of diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease and gastrointestinal malignancies 15-19.the impact of art on the microbiota is unclear.

data on demographics sexual behaviors hiv and sexually transmitted infections stis among nigerian men who have sex with men msm were previously collected 20 21. the prevalence of high-risk human papillomavirus hr-hpv was characterized in a subset of 165 participants 22. after hpv testing seven samples had insufficient volume and 28 failed the 16s rrna amplification criteria of 1000 reads leaving a final sample size of 130 for the rectal microbiota analysis.the study was approved by the federal capital territory health research ethics committee in nigeria and the university of maryland baltimore institutional review board.laboratory proceduresdna was extracted and processed as previously described 10. sequencing targeted an amplicon size of 469bp within the v3 and v4 hypervariable regions using primers 319f and 806r.

for men who were hiv-infected the alpha diversity of the bacteroidetes phylum did not differ by cd4 counts rs-0.10 p0.39 but was positively correlated with viral load rs0.32 p0.01.shifts in microbial compositionthe hiv-uninfected and untreated hiv groups did not differ in their relative abundances of the 21 different taxa categorizations table 1 figure 1. compared to the hiv-uninfected group the art-treated had significant shifts in the composition of their rectal microbiota table 1. within the firmicutes phylum there was an increase in the peptoniphilus finegoldia and anaerococcus genera.

first this cross-sectional study cannot assess directionality but is one of the first studies to describe the rectal microbiota in sub-saharan africa.

third co-infection with rectal gonorrhea may have confounded the abundance differences in one genus prevotella but a larger sample size would be needed to account for this effect.lastly diet antibiotic use and smoking status were not collected and may have confounded our main association.in summary there were subtle shifts in the rectal microbiota among hiv-positive individuals receiving treatment including a decrease in diversity of the bacteroidetes phylum driven primarily by a loss in prevotella.

