cheese manufactured with combined starters and brined at 18 had significantly lower levels of cell viability in the outside compared to the inside layer p  0.05 of the cheeses throughout ripening and similarly but to a lesser de- gree for the cheeses brined at 22.streptococcus thermophilusfor cheese manufactured with s. thermophilus mean viable bacterial counts reached 108.5 cfug-1 before brining in st stlh 22 and stlh 18 cheeses and remained at those counts after the 66 h s of brining in the outside layer of cheeses.

application of a split plot design to determine the effects of sample location salt gradient ripening time and their interaction on the various parameters were performed as reported by  .results and discussionchemical compositionmanufacture of the cheeses using starters in combination or using each starter individually did not significantly affect cheese protein moisture mnfs fat fdm salt or sm contents .table 1chemical composition and ph 7 d of ripening of experimental cheeses.a-bmeans within a column with different superscripts differ p  0.05. values presented are the means of three replicates.1abbreviations mnfs moisture in the nonfat substance fdm fat in dry matter sm salt in moisture sed standard error of difference degrees of freedom 14 9.brining of cheeses in a 22 compared to 18 nacl concentration  showed no significant effect on salt uptake by the cheeses.

this trend appears to be in agree- ment with the microbial lysis data showing larger release of intracellular enzymes in the inner compared to the outer cheese layers  but failed to explain the discrepancy with the plate counts indicating higher bacterial survival in the core of the cheeses a and b.effect of salt on morphology of starter bacteriain this study brining was found to significantly impact the morphology of the microbiota located in the outer layers of the cheeses as a reduction in cell size after 18 h p  0.01 and 48 h p  0.001 of brining compared to pre-brine values was observed b. temporal analysis of the median fsc values revealed that the microbiota residing in the cheeses outer layers experienced a continuous and significant decrease p  0.01 in cell size upon brining and across the first 26 d of ripening whereas the size of the microorganisms located in the cheese cores remained substantially unaltered p  0.05 a and c. when confronted with osmotic shifts bacteria are capable of activating channels and transporters to rapidly adjust the intracellular osmolyte pools in proportion to the osmotic stress.

wilkinson j.j. sheehan.uptake is gradual and salt equilibrium occurs over a period of days weeksmonths  unlike dry salted cheeses where salt is relatively evenly distributed during the salting process  .the diffusion coefficient d of salt in brine salted cheeses has been investigated previously   with the d generally estimated at 0.2 cm2day but ranges from 0.1 to0.45 cm2day depending on curd temperature and moisture composition and brining conditions.

on removal from the brine all cheeses were vacuum packed and ripened at 8 oc for 26 d outlined in supplementary table 1. cheeses were sampled by removing a wedge aseptically from each wheel.

however there was no significant difference in ph between the outside and inside layers for all cheeses and fat levels were similar for all treatments both in the outside and inside layer of the cheeses.

thermophilus viability was observed within the inside layer of cheeses with counts after brining of 108 cfug-1 decreasing to 107 and 107.5 cfug-1 respectively in the two combination cheeses st lh 22 and stlh 18. s. thermophilus th3 has an indicated salt sensitivity of 50 inhibition at 2.1 nacl and 100 inhibition at  4 nacl manufacturer's specification.

cheeses made with s. thermophilus only or with a combination of s ther- mophilus and l. helveticus stlh 22 stlh 18 had significantly higher counts p  0.05 of nslab bacteria in the inside layer compared to the outside layer of cheeses from 7 d to 18 d of ripening.

1. viable cell counts of a l. helveticus b s. thermophilus and c nslab in the outside  - and inside   of experimental cheeses lh only -  stonly  d stlh 22 a  stlh 18 c b. values presented are the means ofthree replicate trials.found that in cheese with a salt concentration of 4 nacl there was no significant difference in s. thermophilus viability over the first 30 days of ripening indicating that s. thermophilus is capable of maintaining high viability counts during the early stages of ripening in high salt conditions similar to that observed in this study.nslabnslab are adventitious microbiota which contribute a large portion of the overall microbiota in most ripening cheeses.

high salt concentration resulted in reduced primary and secondary proteolysis in the outside layer of cheeses which could significantly impact on ripening homogeneity in brine salted cheeses resulting in varied amino acid profiles and volatile components through the cheese block.analysis by fc showed microbial cell shrinkage in the cheese outer layers which was not observed in the cheese core and which supported the hypothesis that starter bacteria may undergo membrane physiological changes to survive the high saline envi- ronment possibly resulting in a more rigid bacterial cell mem- brane and potentially promoting loss of culturability.the detection of larger levels of ros in the microbiota of the cheese outer layer reflected a probable higher oxidative stress due to the high salt environment and consequently to a larger potential for accumulated ros to cause cell death.

wilkinson  j.j. sheehan  a teagasc food research centre moorepark fermoy co. cork irelandb university of limerick castletroy limerick irelanda r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 6 april 2017 received in revised form 8 august 2017accepted 22 august 2017available online 23 august 2017keywordssalt concentration osmotic pressure starter viability flow cytometry membrane integritya b s t r a c t this study investigated the differential effect of salt concentration in the outside and inside layers of brine salted cheeses on viability culturability and enzyme activity of starter bacteria.

this study challenges the current thinking on how salt controls microbial activity in ripening cheese especially in cheeses which are brine salted as local variations in biochemical ripening indices can differ significantly from the outside to the inside of a ripening cheese.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionsalt has been used as a food preservative since prehistoric times and has worked especially well combined with fermentation and dehydration as is the case with cheese production  .

brine salted cheeses differ from their dry salted counterparts in that salt corresponding author.

salt.to the authors knowledge no study to date has investigated the effect of salt gradients in brine salted cheeses on bacterial viability and subsequent enzymatic activity within the cheese matrix.

at ph 5.3 the cheeses were placed for 60 h in either a saturated brine solution 22 ww nacl 0.2 ww ca ph 5.2 or in a brine solution con-taining 18 ww nacl 0.2 ww ca at ph 5.2 solution and at 18e20 oc controlled via calcium chloride addition.

