analyzing the bacterial composition we identified bacteria from 10 different phyla and 19 classes whereby only 5 phyla firmicutes bacteroidetes actino- bacteria proteobacteria and verrucomicrobia containing 8 classes presented .98 of the whole microbiota supplementals figure 2-3. using analysis of variance we found significant differences in 4 classes supplemental figure 3. additional mann-whitney u test analysis between allogeneic animals receiving igy pellets andcontrols showed similar levels at day 28 data not shown but at day 15 after transplantation figure 2a we found a significant increase of lactobacillus reuteri 21.95 6 4.18 vs 0.85 6 0.3 and another uncultured bacterium from the phylum firmicutes 4.18 6.08 vs 0.17 6 0.05 in allogeneic igy animals vs controls.

however the difference in interferon g ifng levels did not reach statistical significance 0.41 6 0.07 pgmg protein vs0.7 6 0.14 pgmg protein p 5 .073. serum analysis on day 7 did not reveala significant difference in relevant cytokine levels data not shown.the pathology score performed 28 days after transplantation showed less organ injury in syngeneic animals compared with allogeneic animals indicating the inferior effect of the conditioning regimen on organ damage.10 in contrast allogeneic mice displayed a high pathology score in liver lung small intestine colon and skin whereby the difference between igy-fed animals and controls was significant for the colon only 4.07 6 0.57 vs 5.58 6 0.51 p  .05. the impact of igy on colon pathology is expected because the colon1054letters to bloodblood 23 february 2017 x volume 129 number 8figure 2. microbiota composition in stool samples.

starting 2 days before transplantation day 22 through day 28 after transplantation animals received feed pellets containing immunoglobulin yolk igy antibodies from hens immunized with heat-inactivated escherichia coli clostridium perfringens and salmonella typhimurium ignova gmbh oberursel germany.

furthermore only 12.5 of the animalsreceiving igy feed pellets died within 4 weeks after transplantation figure 1b compared with 40 in the control group p 5 .045. on day 28 after allobmt animals receiving igy antibodies exhibited significantly reduced tumor necrosis factor tnf serum levels 1.86 6 0.13 pgmg protein vs 4.04 6 0.63 pgmg protein p  .01 figure 1c.

after transplantation animals received feed pellets with hen antibodies igy or control pellets without igy.

thereafter severity of agvhd microbial composition and cytokine levels were analyzed and compared with control animals receiving feed pellets without igy.after transplantation we determined the presence of igy antibodies in stool and serum samples.

thereafter animals received feed pellets with igy or control cont pellets without igy.

our findings are in line with previous studies demonstrating that administration of igy leads to reduction of the viral load.1516 the exact mechanisms remain unknown so far however several mechanisms have been proposed in earlier publications including agglutination opsonization and toxin neutralization.1718 furthermore previous studies revealed a correla- tion between high organ damage population shift toward e coli and the abundance of adherent-invasive e coli in patients with crohn disease compared with healthy subjects.1920 of further interest stool samples of animals receiving igy pellets presented high levels of akkermansia compared with controls.

a on day 15 after transplantation stool samples were isolated and the presence of igy antibodies was determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

despite the use of modern immunosuppressive drugs agvhd remains the major cause of morbidity and mortality.1-3 agvhd manifestation depends on the degree of hla differences between recipients and donors the t-cell fraction in the graft patient's age and prophylaxistherapy regimens.124 in addition gvhd devel- opment is influenced by microbiota in the gut.5-7 beelen et al demonstrated that mice raised in germ-free conditions did notdevelop gvhd whereas control animals raised in conventional conditions died early after transplantation.5 other studies pre- sented evidence for an association between the gvhd outcome and elimination of lactobacillales before bmt or reintroduction of probiotic lactobacillus after bmt.489 in light of these results we hypothesized that orally applied antibodies produced in hens to capture and eliminate bacteria andor bacterial products in the gut might influence the bacterial composition and lead to improvement of gvhd outcome.using a haploidentical murine model b6d2f1 mice conditioned with total-body irradiation received bm cells and splenocytes scsblood 23 february 2017 x volume 129 number 8letters to blood1053figure 1. igy antibodies in the stool survival rates cytokine levels and histopathology scores.

however treatment of allogeneic recipients with igy antibodies resulted in reduced weight loss and decreased clinical gvhd scores when compared with control animals.

recently li and coworkersblood 23 february 2017 x volume 129 number 8letters to blood1055confirmed the anti-inflammatory role of this genus in atherosclerosis apolipoprotein e-deficient mice apoe2221 whereas in another study the authors showed that this genus is pathogenic.22in summary the improvement of agvhd outcome in animals treated with igy may be mediated by reducing pathogenic bacteria such as e coli and by increasing the amount of probiotic bacteria such as l reuteri.

bone marrow transplantation in fanconi anaemia.

alternative donor hematopoietic cell transplantation for fanconi anemia.

long-term survival organ function and malignancy after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for fanconi anemia.

