except for akkermansia all groups of bacteria demonstrated consistently more or less marked decreases leading to a reduction of the total bacterial concentrations of the substantial bacteria from 65 to 25 x 109 bacteria per ml at week 2. some of the bacterial groups fell below detection level resulting in further decline of the bacterial diversity from 48 to 36.however these tendencies were temporary.the total bacterial concentrations in ms patients started to increase at week 12 reaching values typical for healthy controls at week 2324 being then significantly higher than bacterial concentrations in ms patients prior to diet and statistically not different to mean bacterial concentrations in healthy controls p  0.7. this increase was consistent for all but the pioneer bacterial groups and akkermansia.

changes in concentrations of 35 numerically substantial bacterial groups were monitored at baseline and at 2 12 and 2324 weeks.results no ms typical microbiome pattern was apparent.the total concentrations and diversity of substantial bacterial groups were reduced in ms patients p  0.001. bacterial groups detected with erec mainly roseburia bac303 bacteroides and fprau faecalibacterium prausnitzii probes were diminished the most.

it presumably results from the general downregulation of the colonic biofermentative function and affects mainly biofermentative active groups leaving bacterial groups with other specific tasks untouched.we observed no changes in the microbiome that could be specific for ms.while mean concentrations of all essential bacteria detected with erec mainly roseburia bac303 bacteroides fprau f. prausnitzii probes were consistently reduced in ms the shifts in individual substantial bacterial groups were multidirectional with concentrations of some bacterial groups unchanged increased or reduced when compared to healthy controls.

81141. doi background colonic microbiome is thought to be involved in auto-immune multiple sclerosis ms. interactions between diet and the colonic microbiome in ms are unknown.methods we compared the composition of the colonic microbiota quantitatively in 25 ms patients and 14 healthy controls.fluorescence in situ hybridization fish with 162 ribosomal rna derived bacterial fish probes was used.

abundance of bacteria within the fecal mass however directly expresses their biofermenting power.table 2  colonic microbiome in healthy and ms patients prior to and during the ketogenic diet.continuedour data quantifying microbial participants clearly demonstrate the impaired colonic function in patients with ms. both concentrations and biodiversity of numerically substantial bacterial groups were markedly reduced in ms. essential bacteria were most individual substantial bacteria less depleted while pioneer bacteria were nearly unchanged.this grading of suppression matches well with the proposed role of these groups for colonic function.

they started to recover at week 12 and exceeded significantly the baseline values after 23-24 weeks on the ketogenic diet.conclusions colonic biofermentative function is markedly impaired in ms patients.the ketogenic diet normalized concentrations of the colonic microbiome after 6 months.keywords fish colonic microbiota multiple sclerosis biofermentation ketogenic dietintroductionthere is a growing awareness of the significance of the human microbiome in health and disease.

the fitc marked universal probe was used in each hybridization to evaluate the number of all bacteria c5 marked probes with a different specificity to c3 probes were used to determine the spatial relation of different bacterial groups to eachother.only signals that hybridized with a specific fish probe and the universal fish probe but did not hybridize with specific fish probes from unrelated bacterial groups were enumerated swidsinski 2006.fish probesone hundred sixty-two bacterial fish probes available from public resources were applied for the comparative analysis of the colonic microbiome in healthy controls and ms patients tables 1ab.

none of the investigated bacterial groups including groups with unspecific signals demonstrated prevalence or absence in ms patients which could be interpreted in terms of koch's postulates.as long as bacterial groups were compared pairwise the differences between ms and healthy patients were discordant gradual and moderate reaching only in 9 groups statistical significance table 2. the concentrations of most investigated groups in ms were decreased.

seven substantial individual bacterial groups had similar high concentrations in ms and healthy controls.due to uncertain occurrence and low concentrations which was difficult to quantify we did not compare the single marginal bacterial groups in ms patients and controls quantitatively.

the concentrations of pioneer bacterial groups fell and remained low the concentrations of akkermansia increased initially but then declined during the ketogenic diet.discussionprevious investigation using high throughput dna sequencing technologies in large scale 16s rrna or shotgun metagenomic sequencing demonstrated miscellaneous changes in the composition of the colonic microbiome which correlated with ms ms-onset -therapy or -relapse kim et al.

strstr2 streptococcus spp tre308 treponema sp.trepgen 725 s-s-trep genus725 202 tw652 tropheryma whippeliifish probes which delivered identical results to other probes n  8ec1531 e. colieco1167 eco 45a escherichia coli ent183 enterobacteriaceae gam42a gamma-proteobacteriahgc69a actinobacteria high gc gram-positive bacteria bif164 bifidobacteriaceae bifidobacterium spp.eubii phylum planctomyceteseubiii phylum verrucomicrobiawe performed hybridizations with all probes but excluded from analysis 31 of these probes because they showed multiple uncharacteristic signals in form and distribution not resembling bacteria or cross-reacting with non-related bacterial groups and eight fish probes that were identical to related probes for the same species.to reduce the number of unnecessary investigations while following the impact of the ketogenic diet on the colonic microbiome only 35 bacterial groups which were found to have substantial occurrence in at least 20 of individuals and concentrations 109 in at least one of the stool samples of one individual were applied.statistical analysisdifferences between groups were evaluated using the two sided t-student u-test.

in contrast the pioneer bacterial groups remained reduced over the whole duration of the ketogenic diet p  0.05-0.008 indicating an absence of substantial microbiome reshaping.although the concentrations and the biodiversity of colonic microbiota are strong markers of the intensity of the microbial metabolism the shifts in bacterial groups per se do not reveal the exact metabolic changes taking place.

the biofermentation in the colon delivers energy from digestive leftovers and synthesizes a broad spectrum of vitamins and hormone-like substances which regulate metabolism and neuronalactivity galland 2014. the enormous variety of the healthy microbiome conveys antigenic diversity to the host shaping its immunity and autoimmunity berer and krishnamoorthy 2014. an ever growing number of studies demonstrates the involvement of the colonic microbiome in obesity digestive endocrine inflammatory and auto-immune disorders including multiple sclerosis ms berer and krishnamoorthy 2014galland 2014 glenn and mowry 2016.topics methods and results of these studies are well presented and should not be repeated here.

the decrease in concentrationswas most profound in the essential bacteria group 32 and less impressive in individual substantial 19 and pioneer groups 14.changes of the colonic microbiome with the ketogenic diet in 10 ms patientsthe changes in the microbiome during the ketogenic diet were univocal.

no rise of single marginal groups in ms patients was observed.the difference in the microbiome of ms patients and healthy controls became striking when concentrations of numerically substantial groups were summarized and considered as a whole table 2 marked in bold.

