16s rrna gene sequencing identified a total of 161 individual taxa producing4.72 x 106 total reads from 16 x 2 samples.identification of common and rare taxato identify differences between common and rare taxa in pma-treated and untreated conditions distribution abundance relationship plots were produced figure 1.significant positive distribution abundance relationships were observed between taxa abundance and persistence of taxa across samples in both treatment conditions untreated r2  0.58 n  120 p  0.001 pma-treated r2  0.72 n  97 p  0.001.using this relationship taxa in the upper quartile of occupancy 75 samples in each treatment condition were classified as common the remaining taxa were classified as rare.distribution of taxa appeared more even in the pma-treated condition fewer ubiquitous taxa dominate the communities in the pma-treated condition 2 taxa compared to the untreated condition 6 taxa.in untreated sample conditions 6 taxa were identified as common all of which were observed in every sample.

were identified as common in pma-treated samples but not in untreated samples.effect of pma treatment on bacterial richness and diversitydue to the large coverage variability between the stool sample communities m  1.47 x 105 sd  1.26 x 105 meta- analysis was used to identify the effect size of pma-treatment on microbiota composition by bacterial otu richness o shannon diversity index h' and inverse simpson's diversity index 1d.bacterial otu richness was variable between stool samples of the same treatment condition untreated m  9.1 - 2.7 pma- treated m  8.8 - 1.9. the effect of pma-treatment on o was only once greater than the significance threshold 0.2 and showed no directional consistency figure 2.like richness bacterial diversity also varied between individual stool samples in the same treatment condition table 1.meta-analysis showed negative effect sizes of pma-treatment on bacterial diversity in 71.9 of samples of which 73.9 were highly significant 0.8 figures 3 4. significant negative meantable 1  mean and standard deviation for shannon and inverse simpson diversity indices for pma-treated and untreated conditions.diversity indexshannon h'inverse simpson 1d meansdmeansdpma-treated1.130.322.640.95non-pma-treated1.300.162.990.50p-value0.050.05individual taxa abundance within the bacterial communities of stools was performed by simper table 2. simper provides an insight in to the variance expressed as a percentage between abundance of taxa from the untreated group and the pma- treated group.table 2 illustrates which taxa contributed greatest to dissimilarity of common and rare community structures between untreated and pma-treated conditions.greater average dissimilarity is observed in rare 83.21 than common 42.87 taxa.

this suggests that the presence of non-viable dna originating from highly abundant species such as bifidobacteria and enterobacteriaceae could potentially mask that of less abundant species such as enterococcus clostridium peptoniphilus and actinomyces sp.as volcano plots figure 5 only represent fold change in abundance for taxa present in both sample conditions rank abundance plots figure 6 were generated to illustrate abundance of taxa identifiable in only one treatment condition.fewer taxa were observed pma-treated than untreated sample conditions.

2 aaverage dissimilarity between conditions  83.21non-pma-treatedpma-treated bcut-off value set at taxa contributing 1 to dissimilarity between treatment conditions.denotes taxa only attributed common status in pma-treated condition.cut-off set at taxa contributing 1 to dissimilarity between treatment conditions.taxa abundances were reduced to 0.009 following pma- treatment.

this is most probably due to the suppression of dna sequence reads from rare taxa by dominant taxa as illustrated by the reduced bacterial diversity and presence of rare taxa observed in pma-treated samples.these findings are of particular relevance in the gut microbiota of the preterm infants analysed in this study due to administration of probiotic supplements.

2013appears to contribute to the average dissimilarity betweenoverall effect sizes on both measures of diversity were observed following pma-treatment m h'  -0.95 1d  -1.23.effect of pma-treatment on individual bacterial taxa abundanceto investigate the effect of pma-treatment on observable abundance values of individual taxa relative sequence abundance was calculated.

the same means were used to calculate a fold change in taxa abundance between the two conditions and both parameters were plotted on a volcano plot figure 5.the majority of taxa showed substantial fold changes in abundance following pma-treatment however only 6 of these fold changes pass the significance threshold p  0.05 bifidobacterium enterobacteriaceae enterococcus clostridium actinomyces and peptoniphilus sp.in untreated conditions bifidobacterium and enterobacteriaceae sp.

of 111 total taxa present in only one condition 68 61.3 were present in untreated samples while only 43 38.7 were present in pma-treated samples representing a 22.6 reduction in presence of taxa measurable in only one condition.

levels of 2 rare taxa staphylococcus and phenylobacterium were observable at levels  0.09 sequence abundance almost10 fold more than all other taxa observable in only one treatment condition following pma-treatment.

in lieu of the individual taxa for which significant changes in abundance are observed in this study may not be replicated in repeated studies dependant on viable and non-viable taxa abundances.

microbiology 142 1107-1114. doi weinstock g. m. 2012. genomic approaches to studying the human microbiota.nature 489 250-256. doi yu g. fadrosh d. goedert j. j. ravel j. and goldstein a. m. 2015. nested pcr biases in interpreting microbial community structure in 16s rrna gene sequence datasets.

many studies have confounding variables such as differing clinical intervention strategies or major methodological issues such as the inability of 16s rrna gene sequencing methods to determine viable from non-viable taxa.

meta-analysis highlighted a significant reduction in bacterial diversity in 68.8 of pma treated samples as well as significantly reduced overall rare taxa abundance.

a technique to enable non-viable cell exclusion nvce from such analyses is therefore an important and necessary requirement in order to reduce bias and improve the current understanding of bacterial taxa associated with nec and sepsis.pma is a dna chelating compound that cannot translocate across a viable cellular membrane nocker et al.

in doing so we hope to increase the accuracy of microbiota characterization in patients at risk of nec and sepsis therefore improving the quality of clinical inferences made in relation to the conditions.the effects of pma treatment were assessed by comparing bacterial richness diversity and community structure as well as individual taxa abundances within pma-treated and untreated frozen stool samples n  16 when assessed using targeted paired end sequencing of the 16s rrna gene.materials and methodsfaecal samples were collected when available from day of life 43-81 from a set of significantly preterm twins born 252 weeks gestation and at 710 g enrolled on the servis study at the royal victoria infirmary nicu newcastle upon tyne england with ethical permission nres committee north east--newcastle  north tyneside 2. both patients were administered infloranqr laboratorio farmaceutico sit mede pv ita probiotic supplements throughout the course of the sampling period bifidobacterium bifidum lactobacillus acidophilus.

