data are represented as fold change relative to control animals normalized to hprt housekeeper.proportional distribution of ccl20mip3a populations in the hearts of untreatedbalbcj mice at day 21 of eam as determined by backcalculated values from cytometry in c-d. slices indicate arithmetic mean of each population across the group.ccl20mip3a expression in viable cd31cd45- cardiac endothelial cells in dys- biotic or control balbcj mice over the course of eam.

therefore we sought to examine the depen- dence of ccl20ccr6-driven chemotactic recruitment in our experi- mental models of microbiome and ilc regulation of myocarditis.our data above demonstrate fewer rorgt th17 cells infiltrating the hearts of antibiotic-treated animals at the peak of eam d. more comprehensive analysis indicated other ccr6-expressing lym- phoid populations including gd t cells and ilc3s were also less nu- merous in the hearts of dysbiotic animals a. assessing the ex- pression of ccr6 on heart-infiltrating cells further demonstrated diminution of ccr6-expressing rorgt th17 cells following antibiotic treatment b. examining the expression of ccr6 on relevant populations in the guts of naive unimmunized animals treated with polyantibiotics demonstrated defective ccr6 expression on gd t cells and ilc3s in the distal ileal lamina propria - as well as on the mucosa- specialized antigen-presenting cx3cr1hi macrophage subset supple- mental fig.

after in- ducing eam we did not observe a substantive difference in the severity of eam in balbcj and balbcbyj animals supplemental fig.

by multiplex interrogation of cardiac homogenates at day 21 of eam we observed greater expression of the inflammatory cytokines il1b and il6 as well as the myelotropic chemokines and growth factors ccl2 mcp1 cxcl1kc cxcl2mip2 and g-csf in balbcj mice a.many of these cytokines are well-known canonical transcriptional targets of il17 signaling .we also examined the infiltration of th17 cells into the hearts ofanimals with respect to microbiome profiles and eam susceptibility.

these data indicate that colonization with sfb elicits a th17-centered defense program in the mouse hindgut.jax balbcj animals develop more severe myocarditis than taconic balbcanntac micethese findings predicted that sfb-positive animals sourced from taconic would be more susceptible to eam consistent with findings in other th17-driven autoimmune disease mouse models  .

primed myocarditogenic cd4 t cells were transferred into lymphopenic rag2-- or rag2--gc-- animals d the latter of which demonstrate a clear defect in in- nate lymphoid cell development e. as with the mab depletion strategy fewer inflammatory leukocytes were found in the hearts of rag2--gc-- mice following transfer including neutrophils and cd4 t cells f. together these data supported an important role for the ilc lineages in governing the chemotactic recruitment of leu- kocytes to the inflamed heart.to address a possible role for ilcs in the priming of autoaggressivemyocarditogenic t cells we switched from active at-eam to a parking model cd4 t cells were transferred from naive donors into lymphopenic rag knockout animals prior to the induction of eam.

asterisks denote statistically significant comparisons p  0.05 p  0.01p  0.001.resultspolyantibiotic treatment diminishes the severity of myocarditis in balbcj miceto test the hypothesis that the enteric microbiome contributed to host susceptibility to cardiac inflammation autoimmunity and mala- daptive remodeling we induced dysbiosis with a polyantibiotic cock- tail widely used to mimic germ-free animals   prior to the induction of eam in balbcj mice.

at the peak of eam cardiac histopathology enlargement and inflammatory infiltra- tion were significantly diminished in animals treated with antibiotics a-b.

to our surprise at day 21 of eam we observed more severe cardiac histopathology in balbcj animals a in contrast to their ne- gative sfb status.

antibiotic treatment exerted no effect on the development of eam in il17ra-- mice  whereas dysbiosis protected highly th17-de- viated ifng-- animals from maladaptive cardiac remodeling heart failure and death .this conceptual disparity could be resolved by examining cells and pathways epistatically peripheral to the th17 program - a cell type other than a cd4 t cell that still contributed to th17 responses.

representative cardiac histopathology micrographs depict median individuals of each group stained by h  e.relative heart weight normalized to body weight left total viable cd45 cells infiltrating the hearts of balbcj mice determined cytometrically right at day 21 of eam.determination of cardiac function by m-mode echocardiographic imaging of mice at day 21 of eam.

representative cardiac histopathology micrographs depict median individuals of each group stained by h  e.relative heart weight normalized to body weight left total viable cd45 cells infiltrating the hearts of balbcj and balbcanntac mice determined cytometrically middle and cardiac hydroxyproline content right at day 21 of eam.data are representative of three independent experiments.for interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend the reader is referred to the web version of this article.course of eam supplemental fig.

cardiac ccl20mip3a trended towards being diminished when ilcs were depleted by allotypic mab in at-eam re- cipients e as well as in ilc-deficient rag2--gc-- at-eam recipients f. together these data were consistent with the notion that microbiota are important for the maintenance of ccl20mip3a expression in the gut at steady-state and in the inflamed heart.during the course of eam we observed that antibiotic treatment di- minished the expression of ccl20mip3a from cardiac endothelial cells c. decreased ccl20mip3a expression was observed in other less-numerous ccl20 cell populations following antibiotic treatment including cd11chi dendritic cells cd64locd11b macrophages andantibiotic dysbiosis diminished ccl20ccr6 chemotaxisthe cognate receptor for ccl20mip3a - ccr6 - was also of in- terest as its expression is highly enriched on th17 cells as well as other cell types associated with il17-centered immunity  .

lastly we examined cardiac t cells in ilc-defective rag2--gc-- active at-eam recipient mice as above in d-f. we found fewer ccr6-expressing cd4 cells and rorgt th17 cells in the hearts of rag2--gc-- animals d mirroring the di- minution of ccr6 lymphocytes and th17 cells in the hearts of dys- biotic and taconic-sourced animals.

interrogation of cardiac transcripts by re- altime pcr revealed diminished expression of the fibrotic collagens i and iii d. importantly we did not observe diminution of cardiac myosin-reactive autoantibodies circulating in the sera of dysbiotic an- imals or serum c-reactive protein data not shown arguing against the mechanism of protection being global disruption of myocarditogenic processes or systemic inflammation.balbc mice sourced from jackson and taconic are differentially colonized with sfbsubstantive differences have been demonstrated in the microbiome profiles of inbred laboratory c57bl6 mice sourced from different vendors with critical consequences upon the inflammatory and im- mune baseline of these animals at steady-state .

