edward mason and chikashi ito in 1965. although the procedure was initially designated as a treatment for peptic ulcers clinicians soon realized thattable 1physiological changes following roux-en-y gastric bypass rygb surgery in human and rodentscontinued table 1continued  hormonal changesabbreviations bcfa branched-chain fatty acid cck cholecystokinin glp glucagon-like peptide pyy peptide yy scfa short-chain fatty acid.patients experience significant weight loss after the operation 17. today rygb has become the gold-standard treatment for morbid obesity with approximately 45000 rygb procedures performed in 2015 in the united states alone table 1. long-term clinical studies have shown that rygb provides superior outcomes in terms of sustainable weight loss and improved glycemic control compared with other available bariatric procedures such as a vertical gastric sleeve and gastric banding 18 19. in addition to its beneficial effects of long-term sustainable weight loss and resolution of t2dm rygb improves and in some cases ameliorates a wide range of obesity- associated comorbidities such as hypertension sleep apnea and dyslipidemia 20. although the surgery has been employed for more than 50 years the precise mechanistic actions by which rygb improves metabolism and physiology leading to improved insulin sensitivity and sustain- able weight loss are not completely understood.rygb involves significant remodeling of the gi tract's anatomy figure 1. specifically the stomach is divided to create a small gastric pouch the jejunum is transected the distal part of the jejunum is connected to the pouch to create the roux limb rl and the proximal part is reconnected further down to the rl to create the biliopancreatic limb bp.

2011. do we really know why diabetes remits after gastric bypass surgery endocrine 40162- 67rhee na wahlgren cd pedersen j mortensen b langholz e et al.

123 demonstrated an increase in fgf19 and total plasma ba levels after rygb but did not observe this effect in a group that underwent gastric banding 123. several studies in humans reported similar observations of increased circulat- ing fgf19 levels after rygb 125 126. moreover pournaras et al.

2014. roux-en-y gastric bypass versus adjustable gastric banding to reduce nonalcoholic fatty liver disease a 5-year controlled longitudinal study.

2004. changes of body weight and plasma ghrelin levels after gastric banding and gastric bypass.

2010. cholesterol absorption decreases after roux-en-y gastric bypass but not after gastric banding.

26957-65kohli r bradley d setchell kd eagon jc abumrad n klein s. 2013. weight loss induced by roux-en-y gastric bypass but not laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding increases circulating bile acids.clin.

2005. changes in gi hormones and their effect on gastric emptying and transit times after roux-en-y gastric bypass in rat model.

the anorexigenic peptide yy pyy inhibits gastric acid secretion delays gastric emptying and is es- sential for the maintenance of weight loss after rygb as low plasma pyy levels have been linked to weight regain in humans 32. because pyy is released from the same cells as glp-1 and elicits similar anorexigenic effects it has been suggested that changes in hormonal levels may respond to the surgery's effects in a similar fashion as glp-1 29. however this may not be the case as glp-1 directly decreases pyy release in humans 140. regardless several studies have reported elevated pyy levels in both human and rodent rygb models as little as 1 week after surgery and increases over time have been observed 65 141-143. interestingly to our knowledge there have been no reports claiming a decrease in pyy levels in rodents or humans after rygb table 1 however there are conflicting reports concerning fasting and postprandial pyy levels in obesity 144. furthermore similar to the case for glp-1 mechanistic and time-course studies are lacking.

the majority ofthe literature suggests that postprandial levels of glp-1 increase dramatically after the surgery in as little as a few days and may remain elevated for 10 years table 1 27-31. furthermore several studies have demonstrated that the rygb patients who lost the most weight following surgery had the highest postprandial levels of glp-1 32 33. gip changes after rygb are extremely variable from study to study therefore our group and others believe that gip is not a major hormonal regulator of the effects observed after rygb.in contrast to the hindgut hypothesis the foregut hypothesis suggests that blood glucose control is enhanced due to suppressed secretion of anti-incretin hormones resulting from the exclusion of the proximal small intestine during digestion 24. in accordance with this hypothesis and in contrast to the reports described above several studies suggest that there is either no change or a decrease in glp-1 after rygb table 1 34 35. furthermore jime'nez et al.

moreover ye et al.

several rodent and human studies have shed light on the morphological changes that occur throughout the gastrointestinal tract after rygb table 1 16 22 39-42. for example in rygb-treated rats compared with sham controls and biliopancreatic diversion rats stearns et al.

similarly taqi et al.

le roux et al.

mumphrey et al.

