61 1361780httpsdoi.org10.108016546628.2017.1361780reportregulative effects of curcumin spice administration on gut microbiota and its pharmacological implicationsliang lu liu and hong-fang jishandong provincial research center for bioinformatic engineering and technique school of life sciences shandong university of technology zibo pr chinaarticle historyreceived 28 april 2017accepted 23 july 2017keywordscurcumin gut microbiota regulation pharmacology miceintroductioncurcumin is a major effective component of dried rhizomes of curcuma longa and is widely used as a food-coloring pigment and a preservative.

according to the venn diagram showing the shared otus between the curcumin-administered and control groups  there was a total of 370 shared otus between the curcumin and control groups and 39 were unique in curcumin group and 79 in the control group.to explore the effect of curcumin treatment on the richness and diversity of the gut microbiota wefigure 1. venn diagram of the shared operational taxonomic units in the curcumin-treated and control groups.table 1. gut microbiota diversity of the control and curcumin- treated groups of c57bl6 mice.compared the a-diversity metrics including chao1 pdwholetree shannon and simpson of the control and curcumin-administered groups.

infood  nutrition research3abfigure 2. structural comparison of gut microbiota between the curcumin-treated and control groups at a family and b genus levels.view of its expected high concentration within the gastrointestinal tract after oral administration curcu- min may exert regulative effects on the gut microbiota.

considering the dramatically increasing number of reports supporting the pathogenic associations between gut microbiota and many diseases in recent years especially the significant changes in abundance of par- ticular bacterial species in these diseases - the regulative effects on the gut microbiota may account in part for the therapeutic benefits of curcumin.in addition on the basis of the low stability of curcumin previous studies supported that the degra- dation products make an important contribution to the pharmacological effects of curcumin -.

more studies are required to extend the current gut microbiota out- comes found in mice to human studies to provide a basis for gut microbiota-based therapeutic applica- tions of curcumin.disclosure statementno potential conflict of interest was reported by the authors.fundingthis work was supported by the shandong provincial science foundation for distinguished young scholars grant number jq201508.referencesheger m van golen rf broekgaarden m et al.

thus it is rational to infer that curcumin may exert directregulative effects on the gut microbiota.

thus the current study was designed to explore the regulative effects of oral administration of curcumin on the gut microbiota of mice to provide deeper insights into the pharmacol- ogy of this natural compound.materials and methodscurcumin a natural mixture isolated from turmeric containing the three main components of curcumin 40.9 demethoxycucumin 33.2 and bidemethoxy- curcumin 23.3 was purchased from shanghai macklin biological technology co. shanghai china.

several a-diversity indices including chao1 pdwholetree shannon and simpson were calcu- lated to evaluate the richness and diversity of the gut microbiota.

according to the data in  as p  0.05 for all indices it was deduced that curcumin administration tended to decrease the microbial richness and diversity while there were no significant differences between the con- trol and curcumin groups.to investigate in detail the regulative effect of cur- cumin on gut microbiota we then compared the bac- terial composition between the curcumin-administered group and the control group at the family and genus levels.

this motivated us to perform a comparative analysis on the gut microbiota in curcumin-administered mice and controls by pyrosequencing the v3 and v4 regions of the bacterial 16s ribosomal rna genes.

despite no significant difference being found oral administration of curcumin tended to decrease the microbial richness and diversity which is consistent with the results of astudy on the modulatory effect of curcumin on gut microbiota in a rat model of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease .

curcumin administration affected the abundance of several representative families in gut microbial communities of c57bl6 mice including prevotellaceae bacteroidaceae and rikenellaceae.

at the same time the gut microbiota can also transform curcumin .

the contribution of the bioactive degra- dation and microbial metabolism products of curcu- min and the regulative effects on the gut microbiota shed light on the complex pharmacology of curcumin due to its poor bioavailability.

this study demon- strated the regulative effect of curcumin administra- tion on gut microbiota in mice.

