all differences except the affymetrix chip analysis for which the statistical analysis is described above were analyzed by anova or student t test and were considered significant at p  0.05.resultsintestinal epithelial insulinigf-i signaling is dispensable for intestinal growth and developmentto determine the roles of the intestinal epithelial ir and igf-ir in intestinal development growth and metabolic function we created mice with an intestinal epithelial- specific deletion of the ir or igf-ir using cre recombi- nase under the control of the murine villin promoter hereafter referred to as vilirko and viligfrko mice respectively.

thus the ir in the intestinal epithelium plays important roles in intestinal gene expression glucose uptake and gip production which may contribute to pathophysiological changes in individuals with diabetes metabolic syndrome and other insulin-resistant states.the intestinal mucosa consists of a single layer of rapidly proliferating specialized epithelial cell types 12. the up- take of various classes of nutrients and other substancesthrough enterocytes depends on a multitude of receptors and transporters 3 determining their preferential site of absorption.

more information is available at .an additional role of the insulin receptor ir and the closely related igf-i receptor igf-ir in promoting gut maturation and development 18-22. however previous studies in mice with an ir knockout in the intestinal epi- thelium did not identify any major role of the ir in glucose or lipid metabolism 23 nor were any changes in prolifer- ation or intestinal length detected upon tamoxifen-induced deletion of the igf-ir 24. in these studies however glu- cose uptake and the effects of aging were not directly assessed and the igf-ir deletion was performed in young adult mice after intestinal development was complete.

3.the primary transporters involved in glucose uptakefrom the intestinal lumen into the epithelial cells arefigure 2--loss of intestinal epithelial ir improves glucose intoler- ance and decreases glucose uptake in intestinal epithelial cells.

thus the reduced gip levels may play a role in insulin release but appear to be sufficient to mediate these other functions of this gastrointestinal hormone.in summary loss of the ir and igf-ir in the intestinal epithelium has no influence on the development and proliferation of the intestinal epithelium but loss of the ir does reduce intestinal glucose uptake through a decrease in glucose transporter activity and this leads to beneficial metabolic effects such as improved oral glucose tolerance with aging.

here we show that genetic ablation of the ir or igf-ir in intestinal epithelial cells of mice does not impair intestinal growth or development or the compo- sition of the gut microbiome.

thus the exact roles of early deletion of the ir and igf-ir in these important intestinal functions still remain unclear.to investigate the roles of the ir and igf-ir in intes- tinal epithelial function in greater detail we therefore established mice with a specific deletion of the ir or the igf-ir in intestinal epithelial cells using villin-cre and observed them throughout life and in response to a high- fat diet hfd challenge.

similarly viligfrkofigure 1--intestinal epithelial insulin signaling is dispensable for normal growth and intestinal development.

1k as previously described 23. thus neither the ir nor the igf-ir is essential for normal growth and development of the intestinal epithelium.loss of intestinal epithelial ir improves age-dependent glucose intolerance and glucose transporter activityprevious studies 13-1723 using a variety of approaches have shown inconsistent effects of insulin on glucose up- take from the intestine.

this lack of effect on growth suggests that concerns about oral in- sulin analogs having potential mitogenic and tumorigenic properties in the intestine are an unlikely safety concern and that the supplementation of infant formula with either igf-i or insulin to improve gut maturation as previously suggested 41 is also unlikely to provide major benefits.loss of the intestinal epithelial ir however does have some important but unexpected effects on glucose uptake from the intestinal lumen and release of the incretin gip.

glut2 the other glucose transporter expressed in intestinal epithelial cells primar- ily mediates the release of glucose into the circulation and has an additional role in glucose uptake at high luminal glucose concentrations 89. however recent data using conditional deletion of glut2 in the intestinal epithe- lium revealed the effects of glut2 in reducing glucose uptake into the bloodstream and reducing body weight gain with only minor alterations in glucose tolerance43.

siegfried ussar123 max-felix haering14 shiho fujisaka15 dominik lutter36 kevin y. lee178 ning li9 georg k. gerber9 lynn bry9 and c. ronald kahn1regulation of glucose uptake and enteroendocrine function by the intestinal epithelial insulin receptordiabetes 201766886-896  doi 10.2337db15-1349insulin receptors irs and igf-i receptors igf-ir are major regulators of metabolism and cell growth through- out the body however their roles in the intestine remain controversial.

however the loss of irs alters intestinal epithelial gene expression especially in pathways related to glucose uptake and metabolism.

more importantly the loss of irs reduces intestinal glu- cose uptake.

as a result mice lacking the ir in intestinal epithelium retain normal glucose tolerance during aging compared with controls which show an age-dependent decline in glucose tolerance.

