These scenarios suggested that periodontitis was prone to high co-occurrence probabilities across more genera and therebyprobably generating different distribution patterns within the healthy and periodontitis groups.The result demonstrates that polymicrobial community differed between the healthy and the periodontitis groups.

Clustering of all the qualified sequences at a 97 similarity level generated 2322 OTUs and more than 62 were shared by the healthy and periodontitis groups Venn diagram inset in Figure 1. a-diversity was similar between individuals with and without periodontitis P  0.05.

The differences in the bacterial community composition were found at all taxonomic levels including two minor phyla four classes six orders eight families 14 genera and 43 species with significantly P  0.05 different relative abundance in the periodontitis group compared with the healthy group Figure 2.Different Bacterial Distribution Patterns in GCF of Individuals with and without PeriodontitisTo determine if there was a difference in the microbial communities between the GCF of individuals with and without periodontitis Schoener's abundance-based co-occurrence probability analyses were performed for each group of genera.

The difference is attributed toward the co-occurrence of largernumber of microbial communities at the genus level in the periodontitis group.Cytokines and Their Relations with the Bacterial Community Structure in the GCF of Samples with and without PeriodontitisA difference is the cytokine composition was observed between GCF with and without periodontitis.

This study could allow the development of a scoring system that cold evaluate the risk of periodontitis in individuals.The b-diversity comparisons revealed significant differences in the microbial community between the healthy and periodontitis groups.

Nevertheless the disruption of the host response to the microbial communities is involved in periodontitis and it may be responsible at least in part for the progression of healthy gingival sites to gingivitis and periodontitis Darveau 2010.

2014 particularly the conversion of the community structure pattern and the correlation between cytokines and microbiomes may be the major etiological mechanism underlying periodontitis as suggested by the present study.In the present study a-diversity and community-level analyses UniFrac-based PCoA did not identify clear differences between the GCF from healthy individuals and that from individuals with periodontitis.

82144.doi As potential biomarkers in periodontitis microbiome and cytokines have recently been extensively investigated but combined analyses of the variations between the microbial structure and cytokine composition are rare.

The present study aimed to investigate whether there are differences in the combined profile of microbiome and cytokines in individuals with or without periodontitis.

The results showed that a higher co-occurrence of genera in periodontitis group compared with the healthy group as evaluated by Schoener's abundance-based co-occurrence index.

