after adjustment for clustering introduced by matching the incidence rate ratios for the bv inter- mediate and bv positive groups compared to the bv negative group were 2.09 95 ci 1.50-2.90 and 1.71 95 ci 1.23-2.38 respectively.

trainees were supported by the washington university star program caabstractobjectiveclue cells characteristic of bacterial vaginosis bv are thought to arise due to exfoliation of the vaginal epithelium however there is little published data connecting total numbers of epithelial cells to markers of bv.

both intermedi- ate and bv together have been referred to as abnormal vaginal flora or microbiota   .it has long been thought that clue cells one of the clinical features of bv are the result of an exfoliation of the vaginal epithelium in the presence of bv-associated bacteria  .

here we sought to confirm theearlier finding of increased epithelial exfoliation among women with bv and to expand on the previous findings to determine if increased epithelial exfoliation is a shared feature of vaginal microbiomes with nugent score greater than 3.we used a matched cross-sectional design in which women defined as bv-positive nugent 7-10 bv-negative nugent 0-3 and bv intermediate nugent 4-6 were matched on the basis of age race and lifetime number of sexual partners.

in this study we show a correlation between total epithelial exfolia- tion cell counts in vaginal specimens and bv women with nugent scores of 7-10 had higher levels of epithelial cells compared to women with scores of 0-3. in fact epithelial exfoliation was not specific to bv.

we acknowledge the possibility that bv could result in inherent differences in the type andor quantity of biological material collected by vaginal swabbing or that procedure of gram-staining could influence epithelial cells differ- ently because of inherent biological differences in samples from women with and without bv.

our data suggest that epithelial exfoliation may be a host response to elevated numbers of bv bacteria or the results of the action of bacterial virulence factors on epithelial cells even if women do not meet the full nugent criteria for bv i.e.

the degree of epithelial cell exfoliation was compared between women diagnosed as bv-negative nugent score 0-3 bv-intermediate nugent score 4-6 and bv-positive nugent score 7-10. bv specimens nugent 7-10 were randomly matched to specimens in the two other groups nugent low and nugent- intermediate in order to avoid comparing groups of women with potentially confounding baseline demographics.resultsexfoliated epithelial cell counts were higher in the vaginal smears from bv-positive women compared with bv-negative women.

after adjustment for clustering introduced by matching the incidence ratio of increased epithelial cell counts was95 ci 1.50-2.90 for the bv-intermediate women and 1.71 95 ci 1.23-2.38 for the bv positive women.the american heart association and children's discovery institute ng.

approximately one in three women in the u.s. have bacterial vaginosis bv  a condition characterized by few lactobacilli and an overgrowth of a diverse mixture of fastidious anaerobes.

many epidemiological studies have shown bv to be associated with increased risk of sexually transmitted infections e.g.

in preg- nancy bv has been associated with infections of the placenta and amniotic fluid and with pre- term birth -.

however despite the clinical implications of bv little is known about its etiology.bv is an imbalance of the vaginal microbiota and was defined in the 1980s as a diagnostic entity.

in the clinical setting bv may present asymptomatically but it is often accompanied by increased ph thin vaginal discharge fishy odor and the presence of clue cells which are vaginal epithelial cells covered in bacteria .

presently the gold standard for laboratory- based bv diagnosis is the nugent scoring method .

