there are also evidences for microbiota-dependent rv infections in a study in which the use of germ-free animals or antibiotic treatments resulted in a 40 reduction of viral infections in a mouse model.in the present study we analysed the link between secretor status the gut microbiota and susceptibility torv and nov infections in healthy individuals measured via salivary iga titers to rv and nov. the expected link between secretor status and susceptibility to rv and nov was found and multivariate analyses showed that secretor status the microbiota and viral susceptibility are interdependent for both rv and nov. finally specific correlations were found between certain bacterial groups and the risk of rv and nov infections.resultssecretor status correlated with salivary anti-nov and anti-rv titers.

the plot showed clearly different groups in the microbial compositions between the non-secretors and the secretors at the phenotype and the genotype level although without significant differences and b p  0.05.we found that both anti-nov and anti-rv iga levels significantly explained the variations in the gut micro-bial composition associated to fut2 secretor status p  0.040 and p  0.014 respectively on the cca  analysis 3c confirming the hypothesis that all three factors secretor status microbiota and susceptibility to rv and nov are interdependent.in order to seek out the relationships between specific bacterial groups and susceptibility to rv and nov infections in humans a pearson correlation analysis was performed showing a potential link between gutfigure 3. multivariate analysis plots based microbiota composition at operational taxonomic units otu level between secretors blue and non-secretors red panel a and also between fut2 genotypes fut2 blue fut2- grey fut2-- red panel b. canonical correspondence analysis cca showing the relationship between gut microbiome composition of the fut2 genotypes and both anti-virus iga titers anti-rv and anti-nov respectively panel c. anti-virus iga titers significantly explain variations observed in the gut microbiota p  0.05.figure 4. pearson correlations heatmap between the susceptibility to viral infection to rotavirus rv and norovirus nov measured as anti viral iga titers and the relative abundances of specific bacteria at family level.

a trend-like correlation was only observed for rv which may account for the higher variability of rv depending on secretor status which is based on viral genotype as has been described for p8 and p6 rv variants.nov and rv infections depend on the gut microbiotaand on secretor status while the gut microbiota is also simultaneously dependent on secretor status.

when nor- malised salivary anti-rv iga titers were analysed no significant differences were found between the groups but the same tendency with regard to nov was observed b. the antibody titers against rv and nov presented a positive correlation p  0.01 indicating that there is a relationship in the susceptibility to both viruses figure 2. relative abundance in  of the top phyla panel a and families panel b in the studied population including 7 non-secretor individuals fut2-- 9 homozygous secretor fut2 and 19 heterozygous fut2- individuals.

openreceived 05 december 2016accepted 28 february 2017published 30 march 2017relevance of secretor status genotype and microbiota composition in susceptibility to rotavirus and norovirus infections in humansjesus rodriguez-diaz1 izaskun garcia-mantrana2 susana vila-vicent1 roberto gozalbo- rovira1 javier buesa1 vicente monedero2  maria carmen collado2host genetic factors such as histo-blood group antigens hbgas are associated with susceptibility to norovirus nov and rotavirus rv infections.

saliva and fecal samples from 35 adult volunteers were analysed for secretor status genotype the gut microbiota composition by 16s rrna gene sequencing and salivary iga titers to nov and rv.

susceptibility to nov and rv infections has been related to hbga types but individual secretor status linked to the fut2 gene is of special relevance.

in investigations on human nov infections of b cells jones et al.

it has been suggested that hbgas expressed on epithelial surfaces function as receptors for nov with different nov strains showing different properties with regard to the ability to bind to different hbgas.

no cell-culture system had previously allowed the in vitro replication of human nov until recent findings showed that the nov gii.4 genotype can infect human lymphocytic b cell line if an accompanying intestinal microbiota is present.

p  0.05 and lp  0.09.microbiota composition and the susceptibility to rv and nov infection 4. the results showed a signifi- cant negative correlation between susceptibility to nov r  -0.377 p  0.03 and rv infection r  -0.381 p  0.026 infection with the number of bacteria from the ruminococcaceae family and b respectively indicating that individuals with a greater abundance of ruminococcaceae bacteria might have lower suscepti- bility to both types of viral infection.

this correlation was con- firmed at the otu level where a positive correlation was found between akkermansia muciniphila2047 andfigure 5. pearson correlation plots at family level and the susceptibility to norovirus nov panel a and rotavirus rv panel b. the results show significantly associated correlation between the ruminococcaceae family with anti-iga levels p 0.05. a scatter plot is shown plotting the abundance of the ruminococcaceae family x-axis versus the anti-iga titers y-axis.figure 6. pearson correlation plots at genus and otus levels and the susceptibility to norovirus nov panels a and b and to rotavirus rv panels c and d. the p-values computed by correlation are reported indicating if the specific genus or otu is significantly associated with anti-iga levels p-values are indicated in each graphic.susceptibility to rv r  0.499 p  0.0023 f indicating that the abundance of this bacterium correlates with increased susceptibility to rv infections.

correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to j.r.-d. email figure 1. normalised specific salivary iga against norovirus nov panel a and against rotavirus rv panel b in a population of 28 secretor 9 fut2 and 19 fut2- and 7 non-secretor fut2-- individuals.

higher levels of iga against nov and rv were related to secretor-positive status.

a recently published study involving a large population also failed in finding an association of intestinal microbial composition with blood group abo or secretor status.

