3. a the percentage of each bioactive compound measured in the harvested biomass b the phenolics content of each extracted fraction and the total phenolics and c the antioxidant capacity of each extracted fraction and the total antioxidant capacity.tem for the treatment process is considered a superior technology which will help to reduce the cost of aeration required for aerobic degradation and production of bioproducts from the generated biomass.conclusionthe artificial microalgal-bacterial consortium could effectively remediate a simulated wastewater supplemented with a mixture of three of the most commonly used analgesics at high concentra- tion 0.5 mm of each drug in a stpbr at relatively short hrt of 3 or 4 days under continuous illumination or diurnal cycle condi- tions respectively.the harvested biomass was rich in various bioproducts that could be employed in wide range of applications such as animal feed biofuel production antioxidants in pharmaceuticals and food following wastewater treatment.appendix a. supplementary datasupplementary data associated with this article can be found in the online version at .referencesadams c.d.

however most of these studies assessed the levels of pharmaceuticals in the influents and 0960-8524c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.effluents of wastewater treatment plants in different countries during the conventional activated sludge treatment method.in a previous study reported that mix- tures of compounds could affect microbial degradation due to inhi- bition by either competition or toxicity.

again it was reported by and that bacteria could enhance the microalgal growth and help in biomass flocculation by increasing the floc-size of microalgae leading to a rapid settling and harvesting of the biomass.in addition to the ability of microalgae to aid in attaining satis- factory wastewater treatment efficiency the biomass accumulated during this treatment is considered as an important source of bio- products.

no significant increase in the chlorophyll-a content was observed in comparison to phase e t-test p-value 0.05. bsla results showed a significant reduction in the toxicity of the feed during the phase to 73. this suggested that hrt of 4 days under diurnal cycle illu- mination conditions was more suitable for a better and more effec- tive removal of the tested analgesics than a hrt of 3 days under the same other conditions.when the illumination pattern was shifted from diurnal cycle 12 h light  12 h darkness to be continuous 24 h under the same previous conditions phase g the cod reduction and drugsanalysis of bioproducts in the harvested biomass a1k2the optimization of the pbr did not only improve the treatment efficiency but also the biomass settleability starting from the end of phase b and till the end of phase g. according to  the association of bacteria and microalga at an optimum ratio led to the formation of large flocs with high settling rate.

optimizing a suitable and cost effective biodegradation system could combat this emerging problem.in this regard several studies have been conducted on the occurrence and removal of mixtures of different classes of pharma- ceuticals such as analgesics antiseptics natural estrogens beta- blockers lipid-lowering agents antibiotics and psychiatric agents during regular municipal wastewater treatment  .

in this regard and over the last two decades biological treatment of wastewater using microalgal-bacterial systems proved to be the most promising and cost-effective tool  .

the dual-purpose approach of pharmaceutical wastewater treatment and production of valuable bioproducts was attempted through harvesting and analysing the generated biomass to determine its main bioproducts and possible fields of applications.materials and methodsmicroorganismsan analgesics-tolerant microalgal strain labelled as a1 and an analgesics-degrading bacterial consortium labelled as k2 were used to construct an artificial microalgal-bacterial consortium a1k2 at a ratio of 5 1 respectively according to .

the settleability pattern of the biomass was determined based on the reduction  of the chlorophyll-a content at each time interval compared to the chlorophyll-a content measured at time zero.analysis of bioproducts in the biomassin order to analyse the bioproducts in the biomass one litre of the effluent was separated by decantation followed by centrifuga- tion at 2100 g for 15 min.

all phases were operated under diurnal cycle conditions except phase g operated under continuous illumination conditions.the temperature was 30 - 2 degc ph was 6.7-7.3.1101009080706050403020100 cod reduction chl a content mg.l-11086420abcdefgphase idremoval percentages were almost complete reaching 99. there was a significant increase in the chlorophyll-a content by 17 com- pared to phase f t-test p-value 0.05. bsla results showed a sig- nificant reduction in the toxicity of the feed.

.jelic a. gros m. ginebreda a. cespedes-sanchez r. ventura f. petrovic m. barcelo d. 2011. occurrence partition and removal of pharmaceuticals in sewage water and sludge during wastewater treatment.

2009. the removal of pharmaceuticals personal care products endocrine disruptors and illicit drugs during wastewater treatment and its impact on the quality of recieving waters.

.nakada n. tanishima t. shinohara h. kiri k. takada h. 2006. pharmaceutical chemicals and endocrine disrupters in municipal wastewater in tokyo and their removal during activated sludge treatment.

2011. municipal wastewater treatment and biomass accumulation with a wastewater-born and settleable algal-bacterial culture.

in the treatment of wine farm wastewater.

moreover this approach adds value to treating wastewater eliminates the need for fresh water resources for microalgal biomass production and reduces the cost of aeration needed for aerobic degradation of pollutants as the bac- teria will get the required o2 from the microalgae undergoing pho- tosynthesis .in this perspective to the best of our knowledge this is the first study to introduce the application of microalgal-bacterial system for the degradation of a mixture of some of the commonly used analgesics paracetamol aspirin and ketoprofen in an artificial wastewater.

