in mice submitted to either dss or tnbs repeated cml ingestion was unable to limit the inflammatory reaction 0.70 - 0.07 versus 0.77 - 0.07 umg of proteins in dss group and0.54 - 0.06 versus 0.64 - 0.07 umg of proteins in tnbs group table .gut microbiota analysesa total of 2102977 sequences from 123 samples 17097 - 10992 per sample were obtained.impact of cml on gut microbiota of healthy miceat phylum level cml consumption did not affect gut microbiota fig.

using multivariate analyses atdifferent taxonomic levels only slight not statistically significant by anosim differences in gut microbiota were found between control and cml mice gut microbiota at genus level fig.

relative abundance of mice gut microbiota composition at phylum level bacteroidetes a firmicutes b actinobacteria c and proteobacteria d only taxa representing more than 0.001  of gut microbiota are considered.

overall we show here that consumption of cml a surrogate for advanced glycation end-products has little impact on healthy gut microbiota but alleviates gut microbiota dysbiosis in dss-treated mice only.

doi 10.1007s10620-017-4767-8repeated oral exposure to ne-carboxymethyllysine a maillard reaction product alleviates gut microbiota dysbiosis in colitic micenesreen aljahdali1  pascale gadonna-widehem2  carine delayre-orthez2 david marier2  benjamin garnier2  franck carbonero13  pauline m. anton2received 17 july 2017  accepted 13 september 2017  published online 30 september 2017c springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstractbackground diet is suggested to participate in the etiology of inflammatory bowel diseases ibd.

repeated exposure to maillard reaction products mrps molecules resulting from reduction reactions between amino acids and sugars during food heating has been reported to be either poten- tially detrimental or beneficial to health.aims the aim of this study is to determine the effect of repeated oral ingestion of ne-carboxymethyllysine cml an advanced mrp on the onset of two models of franck carbonero nesreen aljahdali pascale gadonna-widehem carine delayre-orthez david marier benjamin garnier pauline m. anton 1 cell and molecular biology program university of arkansas 2650 young avenue fayetteville ar 72704 usa2 expression des genes et re'gulation epige'ne'tique par l'aliment up 2012.10.101. institut polytechnique unilasalle 19 rue pierre waguet 60000 beauvais france3 department of food science and center for human nutrition university of arkansas 2650 young avenue fayetteville ar 72704 usaexperimental ibd and on the gut microbiota composition of mice.methods mice received either saline control or ne-car- boxymethyllysine daily for 21 days.

intensity of inflam- mation was quantified and cecal microbiota characterized by bacterial 16s ribosomal rna rrna amplicon sequencing.results daily oral administration of ne-carboxymethyllysine did not induce intestinal inflammation and had limited impact on gut microbiota composition bacteroidaceae increase lachnospiraceae decrease.

while ne-carboxymethyllysine exposure failed to prevent the inflammatory response it allowed maintenance of healthy gut microbiota profiles in mice treated with dss but not tnbs.conclusions repeated oral exposure to cml limits dys- biosis in experimental colitis.

gut microbiota or micro- biome is the complex community of microorganisms such as archaea protozoans fungi and in the vast majority bacteria that inhabit the gastrointestinal tract git of humans and other animals which mainly ferment and degrade undigested dietary compounds  .

arguably dietary habits are considered to be one of the main factors contributing to the diversity and composition of human gut microbiota since there is growing evidence that human- associated microbes have been lost through the transition from ancestral to western diet -.

inflammatory bowel diseases ibd and colon cancer are well known to be epidemiologically associated with western diet consump- tion   and gut microbiota dysbiosis imbalanced composition has been shown to be a potential contributor to their associated inflammatory process  .

gut microbiota dysbiosis has also been shown in different animal models of ibd including trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid tnbs- and dextran sulfate sodium salt dss-in- duced colitis in mice -.

while literature depicts links between diet composition and intestinal microbiome  there are few data evidencing the potential links between the mode of food preparation such as food heating and chronic gut inflammation.heat processing of food generates several neoformed compounds including maillard reaction products mrps a group of several compounds that influence the color flavor texture and nutritional value and are suspected to have health implications .

since circulating cml is known to derive from endogenous maillard reaction from cml present in food or from conversion of ages by gut microbiota   the potential contribution of dietary cml to the onset of the inflammatory process has been hard to determine.as mrps may be largely present in western diet they may be considered as one of the many dietary elements potentially having detrimental impacts on human health.

however their fate in the digestive tract specifically through gut microbiota has been sparsely studied and mainly in vitro -.

