nonresponse to corticosteroids after 5-7 days is associated with one- year survival rates of less than 30.34 so far there has been no satisfactory improvement in patient survival with refractory gvhd.35loss of intestinal bacterial diversity in gvhd both in murine models as well as in patients after allo-hsct was reported by jenq and colleagues.6 additionally a relative shift toward enterococci was recently observed in gi- agvhd after allo-hsct with the degree of this enterococci-dominant dysbiosis correlating to the severi- ty of gi-agvhd.7 recent data suggest that alterations of microbial metabolites have direct salutary effects on gvhd target tissues.78 however a causal relationship between microbial alterations and gvhd development or progression is still unproven.fecal microbiota transplantation fmt aims at restora- tion of a physiological microbiota by transferring normal fecal microorganisms to a patient's gi tract.9 fmt is high- ly effective in clostridium difficile infection cdi which is mainly mediated by the loss of the microbial colonization resistance to toxin-producing clostridium difficile strains.10afigure 1. characteristics of patient 1. a.antibiotics red and immunosuppres-sants green given to patient 1 before during and after the introduction of fmts.

number of observed species patient 1 figure 1b c and patients 2 and 3 online supplementary figures s1b c and s2b c. fmts were performed one to six times between 37 to 110 days after allo-hsct and after 4 to 6 lines of immunosuppressive treatments.in patient 1 there was no significant or persistent improvement in bacterial richness by 16s rrna gene analysis or diarrheal volumes after a single fmt figure 1b.

the observed duration of gi-gvhd remission in patient 1 therefore was 9.6 weeks.in patient 2 broad spectrum antibiotics and all immunosuppressants except methylprednisolone cyclosporin a and mycophenolate mofetil were discon- tinued before the first fmt performed on d61.

thus the observed duration of gi-gvhd remission was 8.3 weeks in patient 2.in patient 3 diarrhea diminished transiently after fmt and 16s rrna gene sequencing on the day after fmt revealed a reconstituted microbiome online supplementary figure s2.

b. longitudinal illustration of stool volumes mlday black lines left y- axis and richness observed species blue lines right y-axis of patient 1 before during and after six fmts grey dashed vertical lines.

c. fecal microbiota analysis 16s rrna gene analysis of patient 1 before during and after six fmts grey dashed vertical lines.

d. left panel patient 1 before and during fmts.

rightpanel patient 1 at 37 days after fmt 6.macroscopicallyregeneratedilealmucosa with a healed ulcer center.

publication was approved by the local institutional review board.donors different persons for each patient were healthy adult subjects.

in patients 12 donors were maintained for repeated fmts.for details on the bacterial sequencing procedures as well as for statistical analyses please refer to the online supplementary appendix.the detailed patient data are compiled in table 1. all patients received an allo-hsct at our center for myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myeloid leukemia following a reduced intensity conditioning with fludara- bin and melphalan.

macroscopically in all patients the right- sided colon and the terminal ileum turned out to be the main site of inflammation table 1 pictures of patient 1 in figure 1d.

in paral- lel the donor microbiota engrafted in the patient's colon was associated with a substantial increase in microbial richness figure 1b and 1c.

the patient could be dis- charged on d119 without clinical signs of acute or chronic gi-gvhd.

the patient was re-hospitalized on d176 due to community-acquired sepsis and died on d177 despite intensive care measures.

the patient reached a complete remission from gi-agvhd on d90 and was free of complaints until her death from cerebral infarction on d148.

