Therefore we repeated the same experiment growing Salmonella in the absence or presence of 100 uM 34-dimethylbenzoic acid to assess hilA expression this time however we used the wild-type Salmonella strain SL1344 and measured hilA expression through real-time329.103062 3M-HhydroquinoneOHpyrocatecholOHOHOHo-coumaric acid2-hydroxycinnamic acid327.086843 2M-Hm-coumaric acidtrans-3-hydroxycinnamic acidphenylpyruvic acidOOOHOOOHOHhydrocinnamic acidphenylpropionic acid299.128867 2M-H34-dimethylbenzoic acidmethylphenylacetic acid m-tolylacetic acidbenzyl acetateOOHOOHOCH3OOOCH3CH3CH3CH3FIG 5 Molecular structures of the compounds tested for bioactivity against hilA expression.

Hydroquinone pyrocatechol o-coumaric acid m-coumaric acid phenylpyruvic acid hydrocinnamic acid 2-phenylpropionic acid 34-dimethylbenzoic acid 3-methylphenylacetic acid and benzyl acetate were all obtained from Sigma-Aldrich and were 97 pure.

o-Coumaric acid hydrocin- namic acid 3-methylphenylacetic acid and 34-dimethylbenzoic acid all significantly inhib- ited hilA expression .

Among the aromatic compounds tested four elicited significant repression of hilA o-coumaric acid hydrocinnamic acid 3-methylphenylacetic acid and 34-dimethylbenzoic acid.

Brett Finlaybc L. Caetano M. AntunesbfgInstituto de Microbiologia Paulo de Goes Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro Rio de Janeiro Brazila Michael Smith Laboratories The University of British Columbia Vancouver Canadab Department of Microbiology and Immunology The University of British Columbia Vancouver Canadac UVic-Genome BC Proteomics Centre University of Victoria Victoria Canadad Department of Pediatrics The University of British Columbia Vancouver Canadae Escola Nacional de Saude Publica Sergio Arouca Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz Rio de Janeiro Brazilf Instituto Nacional de Ciencia e Tecnologia de Inovacao em Doencas de Populacoes Negligenciadas Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnologico em Saude Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz Rio de Janeiro BrazilgABSTRACT The human microbiome is a collection of microorganisms that inhabit every surface of the body that is exposed to the environment generally coexisting peacefully with their host.

Of these 34-dimethylbenzoic acid showed the strongest activity repressing hilA expression by 51 P  0.0001.34-Dimethylbenzoic acid is a strong repressor of hilA expression.

shows that the expression of all genes tested was significantly repressed by 34-dimethylbenzoic acid indicating that not only hilA but the entire SPI-1 is repressed when Salmonella is grown in the presence of this aromatic compound.

Therefore 34-dimethylbenzoic acid inhibits not only hilA expression but the expression of the entire SPI-1 as well as the capacity of Salmonella to invade nonphagocytic host cells.DISCUSSIONMicrobes are constantly sensing and responding to signals from their surroundings a phenomenon that is critical to their survival .

However culturing Salmonella ST010 in 10 25 50 100 and 250 uM 34-dimethylbenzoic acid resulted in a significant reduction in hilA expression.

To determine if this was the case we cultured Salmonella SL1344 with or without 34-dimethylbenzoic acid and determined the relative transcript levels of not only hilA but also the genes sprB prgK invH sipA and hilC through RT-PCR.

