although there were significant metagenomic metabolomic potential differences between infants with rsv- only infection and those with rv-only infection mimosa analysis of the 254 metabolites estimated that 19 metabolites 7 were derived from bacteria supplementary table 3. none of the 31 metabolites that significantly differed between infants with rsv-only infection and those with rv-only infec- tion were bacterially derived table 2. taken together these results suggest that most metabolites that distinguish rsv-only from rv-only infections are host derived.discussionin this novel multi-omic analysis of nasopharyngeal airway samples collected from infants hospitalized with bronchiolitis rsv-only and rv-only infections were associated with signif- icantly different metabolic function.

there were no demo- graphic differences between the rsv-only and rv-only groups in the metagenomic subset although infants with rsv-only infection were more likely to undergo ppv supplementary table 2. infants with either rsv-only or rv-only infection had significantly different metagenomic metabolomic potentialtable 1. characteristics of 106 infants hospitalized with either respiratory syncytial virus rsv-only or rhinovirus rv-only bronchiolitisprofiles permutation p  .043 figure 2.we performed further analysis of the metagenomic data by using fishtaco which determines taxa that are associatedcharacteristicrsv onlyn  80rv onlyn  26pwith reducing or driving functional shifts 20. this anal-age mo2.7 1-52.7 1.4-7.9.64male sex47 5918 69.34siblings no.1 1-21 1-2.54ysis showed that 9 bacterially derived metabolic pathways were significantly different between infants with rsv-only infection and those with rv-only infection figure 2b.

by contrast metab- olites associated with rv-only infection consisted primarily of n-acetyl metabolites from the amino acid superpathway specif- ically n-acetylthreonine n-acetylleucine n-acetylisokeucine n-acetylphenyalanine n-acetylvaline n-acetylglutamate n-acetyltyrosine and n-acetyllysine figure 1b.of the 254 detected metabolites 31 significantly differed between rsv-only and rv-only infections by relative inten- sity with significant differences for 25 metabolites remaining after adjustment for 7 covariates including raceethnicity and ppv use fdr p  .05 table 2. these associations between the qualitative viral differences ie viral presence or absence and all 254 detected metabolites were also supported by correla- tions between quantitative viral differences ie genomic load of rsv and rv based on inverse ct values and all detected metabolites figure 1c.

this differ- ence was validated using 2000 permutations p  .001. since the use of ppv was significantly greater in infants with rsv- only infection and may influence the metabolites table 1 we removed the infants who underwent ppv from the anal- ysis and still found significant differences in the metabolomic profiles between infants with rsv-only infection and those with rv-only infection p  .001. metabolites associated with rsv-only infection were from a range of superpathways in- cluding carbohydrate metabolism n-acetylglucosamine-n- acetylgalactosamine lipid metabolism mevalonolactone amino acid metabolism 5-oxoproline and energy metabolism 2-methylcitrate-homocitrate figure 1b.

influenzae was positively correlated with the n-acetyl metabolites from amino acid metabolism that are increased in rv-only infection and was negatively correlated with all other metabolites figure 3 and supplementary figure 3. the abun- dance of m. catarrhalis was positively correlated with metabo- lites from a range of pathways but none of the metabolites were associated with either rsv-only or rv-only infections figure 3 and supplementary figure 3.permutational multivariate analysis of variance using distance matrices adonis was used to test whether the virus or the bacterialspecies had a greater association with the metabolomic profiles 22. as the adonis function is based on sequential sum of squared deviations from a centroid the order of the factors ie whether the virus was entered first or second in the model was tested using both permutations.

consistent with these results the networkrespiratory virome metabolome and microbiome  jid 2018217 1 april  1163table 2. metabolites associated with respiratory syncytial virus rsv or rhinovirus rv among infants hospitalized with rsv-only or rv-only bronchiolitisalinear regression models adjusting for age raceethnicity history of prematurity history of antibiotic use prior to the enrollment use of systemic corticosteroids during the prehospitaliza- tion visit use of positive pressure ventilation and hospital site.abbreviation kegg kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes sam s-adenyl methionine tca tricarboxylic acid.analysis showed that the relative abundance of s. pneumoniae had only weak positive correlations with metabolites signifi- cantly increased in rsv-only infection figure 3. by contrasth.

colored squares on the left column denote metabolites significantly increased in rsv-only infection red sig- nificantly increased in rv-only infection green and not significant increased gray as per table 2.mitis was associated with reducing these modules demonstrat- ing that species within the same genus may influence modules differently.multi-omic analysis showed that virus and dominant bacteria were both associated with metabolomic profilesthe 3 dominant bacterial operational taxonomic units fromthe 16s ribosomal rna gene profiling representing 80 of the total bacterial community were characterized by metagenomic data as s. pneumoniae h. influenzae and m. catarrhalis spe- cies.

of infants.rsv-only infection s. pneumoniae was associated with driving carbohydrate and lipid metabolite modules while streptococcus1162  jid 2018217 1 april  stewart et alcspls canonical correlationrv onlyrsv onlynot significant-0.74 -0.37 0 0.37 0.74-4-20246n-acetylleucine n-acetylvalinen-acetylphenylalanine n-acetylisoleucinen-acetyltyrosine n-acetylglutamine sulfaten-acetylglutamate n-acetylthreonineazelate nonanedioateadeninet score 1 2.4 3 indoxyl sulfatemetabolite associated with rv only metabolite associated with rsv onlyn-acetylthreonine azelate nonanedioaten-acetylleucineadeninen6-acetyllysineurea phosphate palmitic amide n6-acetyllysinen-formylphenylalaninesulfaten-acetylphenylalaninen-acetylvalinefructose5-oxoproline sperminen-acetylglutamaten-acetylisoleucine n-acetyltyrosinelaurate 1201-linoleoylglycerol 1822-hydroxybutyrate-2-hydroxyisobutyratefumarate quinolinatealpha hydroxyisovalerate riboflavin vitamin b2 pyridoxine vitamin b6 methylsuccinate5-oxoprolinepregnen-diol-disulfate caprate 100diglyceroln-acetylglucosaminen-acetylgalactosamine2-methylcitrate-homocitratebeta-hydroxyisovalerate palmitic-amidetartronate hydroxymalonatemevalonolactonen-acetylglucosamine-n-acetylgalactosamine-3-2-101p1rsvgenomic loadmevalonolactone spermidine caproate 60rvgenomic loadfigure 1. nasopharyngeal airway metabolomic profiles in infants with respiratory syncytial virus rsv-only or rhinovirus rv-only bronchiolitis.

metabolites in red are discriminatory in rsv-only infection and metabolites in green are discriminatory in rv-only infection.

infants with rsv-only and rv-only infections had significantly different nasopharyngeal metabolome profiles p  .001 and bacterial metagenome profiles p  .05. rsv-only infection was associated with metabolites from a range of pathways and with a microbiome dominated by streptococcus pneumoniae.

examining viral-bacterial associations in the current an- alytic cohort we found that rsv-only infection was associatedwith a high relative abundance of s. pneumoniae and that rv-only infection was associated with high relative abundance of h. influenzae supplementary figure 2. however given the dominance of all 3 bacteria ie s. pneumoniae h. influenzae and m. catarrhalis and previously published viral-microbial associations from the entire marc-35 cohort 9 we included all 3 dominant species in the analysis.among the 254 metabolites the relative abundance ofs.

patient characteristics did not differ significantly between the 2 virus groups with the exception of a higher proportion of non-hispanic white infants and a greater proportion of infants using ppv in the rsv-only group table 1.infants with rsv-only or rv-only infection have significantly different metabolomic profilesmetabolomic analysis detected 254 metabolites.

pneumoniae was positively correlated with metabolites from sphingolipid metabolism supplementary figure 3. however sphingolipid metabolites were not associated with rsv-only infection.

the virus rsv only or rv only was statisti- cally significant when entered as the first factor p  .04 but not when entered as the second factor p  .14. similarly the bacterial species dominance by s. pneumoniae h. influenzae m. catarrhalis or a mixed community was statistically significant when entered as the first factor p  .049 but not when entered as the second factor p  .10. these results suggest that both the viral etiology and the bacterial species are associated with the metabolomic profiles and that both are relevant in infants hospitalized with bronchiolitis.1164  jid 2018217 1 april  stewart et alabrsv onlybacterial chemotaxisrv onlybiosynthesis of siderophore group nonribosomal peptidessulfur metabolismbisphenol degradationlinoleic acid metabolism-1001020t score 1 11.1 peroxisomeubiquinone and other terpenoid-quinone biosynthesislipopolysaccharidebiosynthesis chemical carcinogenesis00123enrichment score wilcoxon test statisticfigure 2. metabolic potential of the bacterial community among infants with respiratory syncytial virus rsv-only or rhinovirus rv-only infection.

rsv and rv co-occurred with bacterial species eg rsv with s. pneu- moniae and rv with h. influenzae and the associated metag- enomes significantly differed between rsv-only and rv-only infections.

