matrix cells in red signify resistance matrix cells in green signify sensitivity and matrix cells in gray indicate no testing because the antibiotic is not appropriate for the bacterium.flora of the killer whale upper respiratory system via 1 sampling wild individual free-swimming srkws at a population level 2 annual sampling of the population over 4 years to identify exhaled breath and sml microbial variation in space and time 3 repeated individual sampling to determine if the microbial composition evolves over time and 4 comparison of the microbial profile in the sml with that of srkw exhaled breath samples to assess the extent of pathogen exposure and recruitment within the host.our methodology captured a single exhaled breath of a surfacing srkw in its critical habitat a snapshot that presumably under-represents the actual microbial profile of the respiratory tract.

this study aimed to determine the microbial composition of the sml and exhaled breath samples of the srkw population to compare the microbial pro- files of exhaled breath samples and sml of proximal waters and to assess differences in microbial composition.

at the time of exhaled breath and sml sampling representative air human breath and rain control samples were also collected.microbiota of srkw exhaled breath.

in addition no cytopathic effect cpe was observed in cell lines after three weeks incubation and pcr did not detect specified viral pathogens in exhaled breath samples or sml.bacteria recovered from exhaled breath samples and sml differed among animals and across sampling years for the same animal table .

although there appeared to be a difference between years for breath communities the corresponding control samples also differed supplementary table  indicating that apparent differences between years may have beentable 1. list of bacteria and fungi detected in exhaled breath samples collected from srkw.table 2. potential and known human or animal pathogens identified in srkw exhaled breath and sml samples-.

resistance patterns of recovered bacteria varied by year and between sml and exhaled breath samples.discussionthis study is the first to characterize the microbial contents of exhaled breath from a wild population of killer whales.

an assessment of the composition of microorganisms within both exhaled breath samples and the sml could reveal a potential relationship between host respiratory and sml microbial flora.research on lung microbiota has disproved the long-held belief of lungs as sterile organs.

breath samples were distinct from sml samples both in community dispersion and centroid distances supplementary table  sug- gesting that exhaled breath samples were not simply aerosolized sml or sea water.

after each sampled whale breath control air samples were collected at the same time as the srkw exhaled breath samples by exposing a series of agar plates described above to the air then processed in an identical manner to breath and sml samples.to collect sml samples sterile plexiglas sheets were placed on the sea surface during calm sea con- ditions and surface tension adhering water samples were transferred into sterile containers using a ster- ile squeegee and funnel supplementary fig.

these microbes have been implicated in human diseases detected in stranded sympatric marine mammals isolated in captive killer whale studies and recovered from lesions identified during prior killer whale necropsies table -.in contrast to the diversity of bacterial species detected in the exhaled breath samples fungi cultured from 13 of 25 exhaled breath samples 52 comprised a single phylum ascomycota table  cladosporium sp.

the pole with fastened petri dishes was passed through the exhaled breath plumes of surfacing srkws for exhaled breath sample collection supplementary fig.

to characterize the composition of the respiratory microbiota and identify recognized pathogens of srkw exhaled breath samples were collected between 2006- 2009 and analyzed for bacteria fungi and viruses using 1 culture-dependent targeted pcr-based methodologies and 2 taxonomically broad non-culture dependent pcr-based methodologies.results were compared with sea surface microlayer sml samples to characterize the respective microbial constituents.

bacterial isolates from the sml and exhaled breath samples were also screened for direct evidence of antibiotic resistance an important indicator of human activity and waste seepage into the marine environment.

a wide diversity of microbes was recovered from the killer whale exhaled breath and sml samples table and supplementary table .

microorganisms were identified by a combination of culture characteristics such as morphology and gram-stain general pcr on microbial cultures or direct pcr on sml and exhaled breath samples.

