P  0.05 NS not statistically significantly different wt S. Typhimurium wild type pduA-X pduA-X mutant pduA-X restored the intact pdu operon was introduced into the pduA-X mutant by transduction ttrA ttrA mutant ttrA pduA-X ttrA pduA-X mutant.doi10.1371journal.ppat.1006129.g002severe acute inflammation in the cecal mucosa while no marked inflammatory changes were observed in mice infected with avirulent S. Typhimurium strains i.e.

Genetically resis- tant CBA mice were inoculated intragastrically with a 11 mixture of the S. Typhimurium wild type and a pduA-X mutant or with a 11 mixture of a moaA mutant FF294 and a moaA pduA-X mutant FF284.

Streptomycin-treated C57BL6 mice were infected intragastrically with a 11 mixture of the S. Typhimurium wild type and a pduA-X mutant or with a 11 mixture of an invA spiB mutant and a invA spiB pduA-X mutant.

We then investigated whether S. Typhimurium strains unable to generate 12-propanediol from fucose fucO mutant rhamnose rhaBAD mutant or either pentose fucO rhaBAD mutant were still able to use the pdu operon for expansion in the large intestine of gnotobiotic mice mono-associated with B. thetaiotaomicron.

When mice CBA were infected intragastrically with a 11 mixture of an invA spiB mutant FF183 and a invA spiB pduA-X mutant FF383 both strains were recovered in simi- lar numbers from cecal and colon contents 14 days after infection .

a mixture of invA spiB mutant and invA spiB pduA-X mutant .

To test this prediction we inactivated the ttrA gene encoding tetrathionate reductase and infected genetically resistant CBA mice intragastrically with a 11 mixture of a S. Typhi- murium ttrA mutant SW661 and a ttrA pduA-X mutant PT305.

Genetically resistant CBA mice were inoculated intragastrically with a 11 mixture of a cyxA mutant FF286 and a cyxA pduA-X mutant FF288.

Deletion of cyxA did not abrogate the fitness advantage conferred by 12-propanediol-utilization .To determine whether 12-propanediol-utilization involved cooperation between aerobic and anaerobic respiration genetically resistant CBA mice were infected with a 11 mixture of a cyxA moaA mutant FF296 and a cyxA moaA pduA-X mutant FF292.

In contrast similar numbers of the invA spiB mutant and an invA spiB pduA-X mutant were recovered from colon contents.

