commentaryrestoring the microbiome in critically ill patients are probiotics our true friends when we are seriously illwilliam manzanares md phd1 pascal l. langlois md2 and paul e. wischmeyer md3keywordsprobiotics dysbiosis synbiotics infections microbioma ventilator associated pneumonia critically illjournal of parenteral and enteral nutritionvolume 41 number 4may 2017 530-533c 2017 american societyfor parenteral and enteral nutrition doi 10.11770148607117700572in healthy individuals there is a homeostasis between com- mensal intestinal microbiota and pathogenic bacteria.1 critical illness is characterized by loss of health-promoting com- mensal bacteria and overgrowth of pathogenic bacteria known as dysbiosis.2 as the gut plays a key role in the progression of critical illness overgrowth of pathogenic bacteria dysbio- sis and acute loss of the colonization resistance of the micro- biota may contribute to the development of new nosocomial infections multiple-organ dysfunction and sepsis in intensive care unit icu patients.

therefore the aspen-sccm guidelines have not clearly recommended the routine use of probiotics across the general population of critically ill patients.14 similarly in 2015 the canadian clinical guidelines practice committee15 suggested that probiotics should be considered in critically ill patients.

from now on further well-designed clinical trials with low risk of bias are urgently needed.recently we conducted the largest and most updated sys- tematic review and meta-analysis evaluating the overall effects of probiotics and synbiotics in the critically ill.18 we aggre- gated 30 randomized controlled trials rcts enrolling 2972 critically ill adult patients receiving probiotics alone or synbi- otics compared with a placebo.

in our analysis probiotic therapy was not associated with a significant impact on other relevant outcomes in critically ill patients such as mortality hospital and icu length of stay.18we performed subgroup analyses showing that probiotics appear to be more effective in reducing nosocomial infections in high risk of death patients as well as in those who received probiotics alone and with use of lactobacillus plantarum532journal of parenteral and enteral nutrition 414figure 2. effect of probiotic therapy on the incidence of ventilator-associated pneumonia in the critically ill n  9. m-h mantel- haenszel test.either alone or in a multispecies probiotic mixture.18 the ben- eficial effect on infections is no longer significant when only high-quality studies are considered and lactobacillus rhamno- sus gg is the only strain provided.18 in this sense as was previ- ously stated by koretz19 low-quality trials may exhibit several biases which can modify the apparent outcome making that intervention look more effective than it really is.19 these fac- tors include absence of concealed randomization single- blinded studies and loss of randomized patients during the study period.19 therefore we speculate that these biases may explain at least in part the beneficial effect of probiotics on infections in those low-quality trials.

recently in chronically critically ill patients zaborin et al3 have found that normal intestinal micro- biota becomes disrupted in response to host physiologic stress and antibiotic treatment.

this multi- center study confirms the occurrence of dysbiosis in the critically ill. in this scenario improved evidence on different therapies aimed at restoring the normal health-promoting microbiome in icu patients dysbiosis therapies such as pro- biotics and fecal microbiota transplantation appears to be urgently needed.4probiotics are living microorganisms that when adminis- tered in adequate amounts provide health benefits to the host.5 over the past years in vivo and clinical studies have demon- strated clear benefits of probiotic therapy in the prevention and treatment of several disease states.

moreover 3 years later barraud et al7 found similar results on icu-acquired pneumonia although 1 year earlier petrof et al10 had only shown a tendency to reduce the incidence of vap in critically ill patients.

thus the results of this meta-analysis do not provide sufficient evidence on the efficacy of probiotic therapy in the prevention of vap in the icu.11 recently zeng et al12 in a well-performed study includ- ing 235 critically ill adult patients who were expected to be in mechanical ventilation for 48 hours safely administered 2 strains of living bacteria bacteroides subtilis and enterococcus faecalis.

11.600. montevideo uruguay.email manzanares et al531figure 1. effect of probiotic therapy on overall infections in the critically ill n  14. m-h mantel-haenszel test.associated with a significant reduction in the incidence of vap 36.4 vs 50.4  p  .031 in the probiotic and control groups respectively.

in addition the authors show that the mean time to developing a vap was significantly longer in the probiotic group vs the control group 10.4 vs 7.5 days respectively p .022. finally this trial demonstrated a lower incidence of gas- tric colonization by pathogens in the probiotic arm p  .004.12 currently other trials such as the prevention of severe pneumonia and endotracheal colonization trial prospect nct0178275511 are evaluating the preventive effects of pro- biotics on vap and other infectious complications in the criti- cally ill.13despite clinical benefits of probiotics the recently updated clinical guidelines for the adult critically ill patient from the american society for parenteral and enteral nutrition aspen and society of critical care medicine sccm14 suggest that probiotics should be used only for select medical and surgical patient populations for which published trials have documented safety and outcome benefits such as trauma liver transplantation and patients undergoing pancreatic sur- gery.

thus updated guidelines cannot recommend routine use of probiotics in critically ill adult patients as existing data are not conclusive.

therefore their results cannot be extrapolated to critically ill patients.

these limitations weakened the strength of the conclu- sions of the benefit of probiotic therapy in critical illness in our recent meta-analysis.15moving forward a research agenda focused on dysbiosis therapy to restore a healthy microbiome using specific probi- otic or synbiotic therapy in critical care should be focused on the followingfirst experimental studies in animal models must con- firm depleted strains before preclinical safety and ef- ficacy studies can be conducted.second continued research is needed for better under- standing and characterization of critical care dysbiosis via modern microbiome profiling techniques.third in the near future icu physicians should be able to incorporate advances in microbiome sequencing technology into clinical practice for targeting of dysbio- sis therapy.manzanares et al533finally future targeted probiotic therapy focused on personalizing care in critically ill patients will likely be the optimal method to improve patients' outcomes.for example the recent icu microbiome project4 demon- strated a significant and rapid loss of key health-promoting bacteria ie firmicutes and an overgrowth of well-recognized pathogens such as enterobacter and staphylococcus.

bugs or drugs are probiotics safe for use in the critically ill curr gastroenterol rep. 201416388.wischmeyer pe mcdonald d knight r. role of the microbiome pro- biotics and 'dysbiosis therapy' in critical illness.

201038954-962.barraud d bollaert pe gibot s. impact of the administration of probiot- ics on mortality in critically ill adult patients.

