these early observations were correlatively affirmed in epidemiological studies that showed associations between bile acids and cancer notably colorectal cancer summarised in 2. since then extensive research hasrevealed that bile acids act as tumour promoters in a variety of organs such as the oesophagus the liver and the stomach lining 3 4.however in recent years several reports have emerged demonstrating the effectiveness of bile acids in reducing cell proliferation and migration of some cancer cell types.

these metabolites have been shown to downregulate the key receptor tyrosine kinases erb-2 and erb-3 however the physiological implications of these findings have yet to be determined 81. it is evident from the dearth of information in the literature that more research is required to fully realise the potential of microbial based therapies in restoring bile acid homeostasis in cancer cohorts where recurrence of disease is common.while the generation of novel probiotics and microbiota-based strategies could potentiate bile signalling in cancer progression there remains the possibility that control of bile acids from a dietary perspective could decrease susceptibility to cancer.

if potentially metastatic lesions are present in susceptible organs physiological bile acid levels could limit cell invasion cell migration and cell adhesion phenotypes.colon cancer cohorts for liver cancer susceptibility in obese cohorts continuous monitoring of serum and faecal dca levels could prove effective in predicting obesity associated liver cancer 90. supplementation of antioxidant agents to limit dca-dependent ros cell membrane damage has also been proposed as a potential therapy for barret's oesophagus patients 14 91. similarly aspirin could exert chemo-preventative effects on key apoptotic signalling molecules at different organ sites e.g.

in this review we contextualise the current state of the art to propose that the bile acid gut microbiome axis can influence cancer progression to the extent that classical in vitro cancer hallmarks of malignancy cell invasion cell migration clonogenicity and cell adhesion are significantly reduced.

we readily acknowledge the existence of a bile acid gut microbiome axis in cancer initiation however in light of recent advances we focus exclusively on the role of bile acids as potentially beneficial molecules in suppressing cancer progression.

through theexploration of contemporary developments in this area we can begin to redefine the bile acidmicrobiome axis and its putative role in tumour suppression.bile acids as emerging molecules in tumour suppressionbile acids are key signalling molecules that play important roles as emulsifiers in digestion and the absorption of dietary lipids 2 5-7. the evidence implicating bile acids in cancer oesophageal stomach gut has been extensively documented throughout the literature 3 8 9. a combination of mechanisms appears to be responsible for bile induced cancer in organs where elevated bile acid levels persist e.g.

mitosis disruption g1g2 cell cycle arrest endoplasmic stress lead to chromosomal instability and dna damage underpinning the initial stages of colorectal tumorigenesis thereby aggravating an already unstable environment 2 6 11 13 14 15 16.the macro-level damage described above is also associated with significant changes in several key signalling pathways table 1. constitutive activation and translocation of the transcription factor nf-kb a protein involved in dna transcription inflammatory cytokine production and enhanced cell survival occurs in response to dca exposure at the oesophagus and colon 6 14 17-19. similarly expression of cyclooxygenase cox2 and prostaglandin e2 pge2 a member of the prostaglandin family involved in inflammation cell growth and hormone regulation is significantly elevated in pancreatic cancer cell lines bxpc-3 and su 86.86 in response to dca and cdca 20. cox2 cited as a stress marker induced in barret's mucosa a predictor of oesophageal adenocarcinoma is increased upon exposure to dca and chenodeoxycholate cdca in squamous cancer oesophageal cells.

the identification of a detoxifying role for fxr in colorectal cancer crc the third most common malignancy worldwide 11.factors shaping bile acid profilesthe bile acidmicrobiome axiswhile the molecular and cell behavioural events induced by bile acids in cancer development are important it is vital to assess factors that shape and sculpt bile acid profiles.

the role of intestinal microbiota-derived bile acid metabolites in the aetiology of colorectal cancer was hypothesised several decade ago 33 34. understanding and dissecting the microbiomebile acid axis will help identify how potentially pathophysiological bile acid profiles are generated in the body and more importantly how they impact on cancer development.the gut microbiome is a community of commensal symbiotic and pathogenic microorganisms that inhabit the gastrointestinal tract contributing both to human health and disease.

due to over reliance on medicines causing resurgences of pathogenic microbial populations 8 andv activation of transcriptional programmes regulated by different nuclear receptors and altered production of cytokines that induce pro-inflammatory responses 11 45 59. unlocking the molecular interplay between these factors and their association with elevated bile acidstable 1 the impact of bile acids on signalling pathways involved in cancer aetiologyexcessive dca production and cancer progression could shed light on the altered expression of key biochemical messengers e.g.

supra-physiological levels of bile acids exacerbate key cellular physiological events in cancer development.species as well as promoting bile acid metabolism 60 61. deficiencies in these genera can therefore upset dca production and increase inflammation leading to ulcerative colitis a precursor to colon cancer 45 62. dca production can become elevated thanks to high fat diets inhibiting the growth of particular taxa of the phyla bacteroidetes and firmicutes causing dysbiosise.g.

inflammatory bowel disease a potential precursor tocolorectal cancer 63 64.it is a sobering thought that only a small fraction of all microbes are easily cultured and characterised in the laboratory 65. concerted efforts should be made tostudy and characterise microbiome strains that have been implicated in cancer.

pancreatic colon and colorectal cancer 77-80. there is some evidence to suggest that secreted metabolites derivedfrom lactobacillus strains reduce the viability of colon cancer cells caco-2 and ht-29.

ampicillin vancomycin neomycin and metronidazole could target dca mediated genotoxicity generated by dca producing bacteria e.g.costridia in high risk colon cancer patients 8 73. similarly dca levels are reduced in mice by decreasing 7a-dihydroxylation activity using fructose anhydride iii or increasing bile acid secretion through ursodeoxycholic acid ucda administration 84. udca has long been speculated to act as a potential therapeutic agent in the treatment of colorectal and liver cancer.

therefore their use as potential cancer therapies is a distinct possibility 49. similarly future studies on non-bile modulating organisms could be used to regulate gut dynamics to protect against bile acid producing pathogens implicated in colon cancer.

