A representative 50 g sample of soil was collected at each of these 24 quadrats by pooling nine soil samples from each soil depth including soil from open areas and under plants.

S5 Principal coordinates analysis of dissimilarity of the restoration chronosequence sites based on soil physical and chemical characteristics.Table S1 Mean -SD number of quality-filtered reads on raw data OTU richness on raw data Shannon's diversity index and evenness on rarefied data across the restoration chronose- quence sites.Table S2 Soil characteristic values across the restoration chronosequence sites.Table S3 Pearson correlations between soil characteristics and Acidobacteria and Firmicutes with  indicating a positive cor- relation and - indicating a negative correlation.Table S4 Effect of restoration site and soil depth on diversity of bacteria phyla.

An additional 300 g soil was sampled from these pooled samples and used for soil physical and chemical analysis.

We quantified soil moisture ammonium nitrate available phosphorus sulphur organic carbon and soil pH H20 and CaCl2 for more detailed meth- ods see Bissett et al.

We found nitrate and phosphorous decreased with age of restorationTable 2 Effect of restoration site and soil depth on soil characteristicsPermuted analysis of variance nsnot significant P  0.05 P  0.01 P  0.001.which is also consistent with previous trends from the restoration of abandoned pastoral lands Cunningham et al.

We have shown that restoration can reduce macronutrient loading from land legacy effects return- ing soil to a state that resembles remnant sites.Organic matter turnover and nutrient cycling are often driven by the activity of soil microorganisms Fierer et al.

The biogeography of soil micro- biota and testing the consistency of soil bacterial responses to revegetation and other restoration inter- ventions will also underpin its utility.

Molecular Ecology 2017 26 2895-2904doi 10.1111mec.14081Revegetation rewilds the soil bacterial microbiome of an old fieldNICHOLAS J. C. GELLIE 1JACOB G. MILLS 1 MARTIN F. BREED and ANDREW J. LOWESchool of Biological Sciences and the Environment Institute University of Adelaide Adelaide SA 5005 AustraliaAbstractEcological restoration is a globally important and well-financed management interven- tion used to combat biodiversity declines and land degradation.

Here we show that metabarcoding of soil eDNA is effective at demonstrating the return of the native bacterial community in an old field following native plant revegetation.

soil can provide a complimentary approach to field-based ecological mon- itoring Thomsen  Willerslev 2015 Barnes  Turner 2016 and could revolutionize the restoration assessment process Ji et al.

