therefore the aim of this study was to characterize cholesterol metabolism and rct in germ-free mice compared with conventional mice.approach and results--in chow-fed germ-free mice plasma cholesterol was unchanged whereas liver cholesterol content was higher 1.5-fold p0.05 than in conventional controls.

stress could potentially explain these findings7 but plasma corticosterone levels were comparable between conven- tional and germ-free mice making this possibility less likely 1466-219 versus 1496-159 nmoll respectively.therefore we also characterized bile acid metabo- lism under germ-free conditions more in detail.

previous work indicated that differences in cholesterol metabolism between germ-free and conventional mouse models are variable the observed phenotypes conceivably depend on diet genetic background and the respective composition of the microbiota in the con- ventional control groups.8-10 thus far decreased plasma cholesterol both increased and decreased liver cholesterol and higher fecal neutral sterol output were observed in germ- free mice fed western-type or high-fat diets.1011 interestingly though the most significant differences between conven- tional and germ-free mice in our experimental system were seen in bile acids.the changes in ba metabolism occurring in the germ-freemice are however rather complex on the one hand there is increased biliary ba secretion on the other decreased fecal excretion.

in addition also about bile acid metabo- lism in germ-free mice variable data have been generated likely dependent on genetic background and diet for exam- ple unchanged and decreased fecal bile acid excretion were reported.814 clearly also with respect to this issue more stud- ies are needed to better characterize the response of different germ-free mouse lines to varying experimental conditions.

reverse cholesterol transport is increased in germ-free micefigure legendssupplementary figure i fplc profiles a and hdl cholesterol efflux b in conventional and germ-free mice.

wildtype female germ-free c57bl6 mice were generated by cesarean section and foster nursing with germ-free swiss-webster mice taconic ejby denmark in our animal facility and maintained in sterile flexible gnotobiotic isolators.

reverse cholesterol transport is increased in germ-free mice--brief reportrima h. mistry henkjan j. verkade uwe j.f.

biliary secretion of cholesterol 2-fold p0.001 and bile acids 3-fold p0.001 was substantially increased in the germ-free model whereas fecal neutral sterol excretion was unaltered and fecal bile acid excretion was decreased p0.01.

however fecal bile acid profiles of germ-free mice weredominated by the presence of b-muricholic acid p0.001 pointing toward a higher contribution of the alternative acidic pathway to total bile acid synthesis in these mice.

as expected secondary bile acids were absent in the germ-free model.

therefore the aim of the present work was to establish the importance of the intestinal microbiota for rct by comparing conventional with germ-free mice.see accompanying editorial on page 385tinal bacteria in particular also express 100-fold more genes than present in the human genome.1 the intestine is one of thekey organs in the regulation of cholesterol metabolism with rel- evance for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

enterocytes are responsible for cholesterol absorption can synthesize cho- lesterol and form high-density lipoprotein particles.2 as a pre- cedence for the impact of bacteria on cardiovascular disease it was demonstrated that specific diet-microbe-host interactions can enhance experimental atherosclerosis via the coordinate production of the proatherosclerotic metabolite trimethyl- amine-n-oxide.3 subsequently trimethylamine-n-oxide was also identified as a prospective biomarker for the future devel- opment of cardiovascular disease events in the general popula- tion further stressing the relevance of the microbiota for human disease.4 in addition bacteria can modulate bile acid ba metabolism and thereby impact cholesterol turnover.5 in con- ventional mice the intestine was shown to contribute to reverse cholesterol transport rct a key atheroprotective pathway.6 however the impact of the intestinal microbiota per se on rctmaterials and methodsmaterials and methods are available in the online-only data supplement.resultsfirst we characterized cholesterol metabolism in germ-free mice compared with conventional controls.

both groups had similar body weights 21.3-1.1 versus 21.4-1.5 g. although plasma total cholesterol figure a and triglyceride lev- els 0.26-0.02 versus 0.28-0.02 mmoll were comparable between groups fplc profiles showed a discrete shift toward higher low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol and lower high-den- sity lipoprotein-cholesterol in germ-free animals figure ia in the online-only data supplement.

hepatic cholesterol content was higher in germ-free mice by 1.5-fold 5.90-1.25received on august 11 2016 final version accepted on december 19 2016.from the department of pediatrics center for liver digestive and metabolic diseases university of groningen university medical center groningen the netherlands.the online-only data supplement is available with this article at httpatvb.ahajournals.orglookupsuppldoi10.1161atvbaha.116.308306-dc1.correspondence to uwe tietge md department of pediatrics center for liver digestive and metabolic diseases university medical center groningen hanzeplein 1 9713 gz groningen the netherlands.

biliary cholesterol and bile acid secretion was 2- and 3-fold increased respectively in mice lacking microbiota p0.001 figure b and c. fecal out- put was significantly increased in germ-free mice 213-26 ver- sus 162-12 mg per day p0.05.

