Gassericin A was reported in L. gasseri LA39 and analogs of gassericin T were reported in L. gasseri SBT2055 gassericinT LA158 gassericin T 11 LF221 gassericin K7B 13 and EV1461 gassericin E The former gassericin A is a rare Class IIc circular bacteriocin.

gasseri by using the average nucleotide identity ANI the statistical similarity computed from whole genome sequences An ANI threshold of 95 corresponds to an experimental DNA-DNA hybridization DDH value of 70 which is the general criterion for a species-level difference To reveal genomic characteristics within the two L. gasseri groups we here report detailed analysis of them focusing on their gene contents.In total 75 draft genomes of L. gasseri were downloaded from our DFASTArchive of Genome Annotation DAGA the curated genome repository of Lactobacillus and Pediococcus from the DDBJENAGenBank and Sequence Read Archive SRA They all satisfied a quality rating of 4 out of 5 in our database meaning that their genome completeness is95 and contamination level is 5 as computed by the CheckM software When ANI values were calculated for all pairs of the obtained genomes by an open-sourceCorresponding author.

The genomic differences provide evidences for demarcating a new probiotic group within L. gasseri.Key words comparative genomics Lactobacillus gasseri gassericin T quorum sensingLactobacillus gasseri is an autochthonous species of lactic acid bacteria LAB that colonizes in the human gastrointestinal tract vaginal tract and oral cavity.

The multiple analogs presumably result from their promiscuous inhibitory spectra that depend on subtle amino acid substitutions or modifications.The production of gassericin T requires 9 related genes in a 7 kb genomic region in L. gasseri LA158 GenBank AB710328.1 11.

The gene cluster is chromosomal at least in complete genomes showing a good contrast to the gassericin A gene cluster 4 kb on a plasmid of the producer strain L. gasseri LA39 JCM11657 the strain was not included in ourTable 1.

Primary amino acid and DNA sequences of gassericin T a lactacin F-family bacteriocin produced by Lactobacillus gasseri SBT2055.

Genetic and biochemical evidence for gassericin T production from Lactobacillus gasseri LA158.

Bacteriocins of Lactobacillus gasseri K7--monitoring of gassericin K7 A and B genes' expression and isolation of an active component.

Purification and genetic characterization of gassericin E a novel co-culture inducible bacteriocin from Lactobacillus gasseri EV1461 isolated from the vagina of a healthy woman.

DNA sequencing and homologous expression of a small peptide conferring immunity to gassericin A a circular bacteriocin produced by Lactobacillus gasseri LA39.

