three samples were collected before treatment day -10 -2 and0 and 36 samples over the following four months post-treatment up to day 122. all samples were midstream urine samples captured in sterile 50 ml-tubes and stored at -20 degc until extraction and further analysis.

the anti-inflammatory activity of betamethasone has proven 25 times higher than the relative activity of the endogenous corticoid cortisol.material and methodsin vivo experimental set-upto elucidate the in vivo effects of a glucocorticoid treatment on a horse's urinary aas excretion profile urine samples were collected from a gelding with mild bone spavin treated with 1 ml chronodose celestoner in each hock 11.4 mg betamethasone in total.

chronodose is a frequently used formulation in equine medicine that contains two forms of betamethasone bethamethasone-disodiumphosphate 4 mgml3 mgml betamethasone and betamethasone-acetate 3 mgml2.7 mgml bethamethasone responsible for the medicament's long term effects.

significant increases of the different compounds are indicated with a letter a testosterone b add cd cortisol and cortisone and highlighted in a square in the respective colour.dose and duration of glucocorticoid therapy should be kept as low as possible.as betamethasone was being eliminated and betamethasone effect decreased the regulatory positive feedback loop was activated.

this was in line with previously obtained results by  who noted that following intra-articular injection of 1 ml of celestone chronodoser into both radial carpal joints of both front knee joints betamethasone could be detected in urine and plasma for three days and one day respectively and no betamethasone acetate could be detected in either urine or plasma .higher initial glucocorticoid doses than the dose used in this study are however quite common in veterinary medicine.

in vivo effects were investigated by analysing urine samples collected from a gelding treated with betamethasone.

by esterification a depot effect is created out of which betamethasone is slowly released over time whereas betamethasone- disodiumphosphate renders the glucocorticoid activity on the short term.urinary samples were collected and analysed on a regular basis to monitor the excretion of aas and endogenous glucocorticoids over time.

samples were stored at -20 degc prior to extraction  .lc-ms reagents and chemicalsa-testosterone androst-4-ene-17a-ol-3-one at purity  99 b- testosterone androst-4-ene-17ss-ol-3-one sst purity  99 methyltestosterone androst-4-ene-17a-methyl-17ss-ol-3-one met pu- rity  99 androstadienedione androsta-14-diene-317-dione add purity  99 cortisol hydrocortisone or 17-hydroxycorticosterone purity 98 cortisone 17-hydroxy-11-dehydrocorticosterone purity98 dihydrocortisone prednisone methylprednisolone prednisolone 1-dehydrohydrocortisone purity  99 betamethasone 9a-fluoro- 16b-methylprednisolone purity  98 cortisol-d4 purity  99 proteinase type xxiii from aspergillus melleus 3 enzyme unitsmg and b-glucuronidase helix pomatia aqueous n 100.000 unitsml were pur- chased from sigma-aldrich st-louis us and prednisolone-d8 from trc canada.

all concentrations presented in the results section are sg normalized concentrations.resultsurinary profile after intra-articular administration of betamethasonein the post-treatment urine samples only traces of betamethasone b 0.5 ngml could be detected and only in the first days post-treat- ment.

these results suggest a correlation between the increase in aas excretion and the endogenous glucocorticoid overshoot after exoge- nous glucocorticoid suppression.in general the analysis of post-treatment urine samples revealed that an influence of the treatment undoubtedly could be measured up to several weeks after betamethasone intra-articular infiltration.

2. chemical structures of a betamethasone synthetic glucocorticoid and b cortisol endogenous glucocorticoid.

intra-articular in- jection of betamethasone is valuable in this regard for its anti-inflam- matory and analgesic properties.

cortisone prednisoloneand betamethasone were also tested as these are frequently used by veterinarians during anti-inflammatory treatments.

betamethasone was also included as it is a high- ly potent anti-inflammatory drug often used in joint disease therapy e.g.

cortisone prednisolone cortisol or betamethasone 50 ngml was added to each of three simulations same digestion in triplicate and one incubation with each of the com- pounds without fecal inoculum.

