arrows in bold type denote significant changes within aged mice.genera including butyricimonas p  0.01 tm7 uncultured p  0.01 gelria p  0.05 anaerosporobacter p  0.05 clostrid- ium p  0.05 oxalobacter p  0.05.the chao 1 index which estimates species richness was signif- icantly higher in the aged group p  0.01. in addition the number of observed species and the phylogenetic diversity were also higher in the aged mice p  0.01 p  0.03. the shannon index alpha diversity was significantly higher in aged mice p  0.0001 a. beta diversity was significantly different between aged and young groups p  0.001 b.the relative abundance of porphyromonadaceae correlates with anxiety-like behaviour in aged micebecause some of the microbiota changes observed have been associated with cognitive dysfunction we compared relative abun- dance of 3 taxa that were significantly altered in aged mice por- phyromonadaceae odoribacter and tm7 with behavioural data.

both aged and young mice spent more time investigating a novel mouse as opposed to a novel object suggest- ing that there were no differences in preference for a conspecificp  0.0001 a. however whereas younger mice spent sig- nificantly more time interacting with a novel mouse than a familiar mouse p  0.0001 aged mice spent similar amount of time inves- tigating the novel and familiar mice suggesting an impairment in social recognition or a reduced preference for social novelty b.aged mice exhibit increased basal gut permeability which is further exacerbated by acute stress exposuregut permeability was assessed in young and aged mice prior to and following 1 h of restraint stress.

a number of pro- inflammatory cytokines were elevated in aged mice including il- 1b a p  0.01 tnf-a b p  0.0001 and il-2 cp  0.01. there was a trend towards increased il-6 expression in aged mice e p  0.07. the anti-inflammatory cytokine il-10 was unchanged in aged mice f. plasma cytokines assessed at the end of the experiment were also plotted against plasma fitc-d levels assessed prior to and following restraintstress.

aged mice performed similarly to young mice in the spontaneous alternation test a. whereas young mice spent a significantly greater percentage of time inter- acting with a displaced familiar object p  0.01 aged males did not b.aged mice exhibit behaviours associated with anxiety but not depressionbecause ageing is often associated with changes in mood we also investigated anxiety- and depressive-like behaviours usingfig.

aged mice spent less time in the centre arena and made fewer entries into this area during the open field test p  0.01 c and d. aged animals also spent a significantly lower percentage of time in the open arms of the plus maze p  0.05 e and together these findings suggest increased anxiety.

aged mice had significantly greater basal intestinal permeability than young mice p  0.05. whereas gut permeability of young mice was unaffected by restraint stress permeability was further enhanced in aged mice aged-basal v. aged-stressed p  0.01 young-stressed v. aged- stressed p  0.001 .fig.

aged mice exhibited no preference for the novel mouse.p  0.0001.although levels were dropping at these time points in young mice suggesting recovery they were rising in aged mice suggesting pro- longed cort release.

although basal cort levels did not differ between groups aged mice had significantly lower plasma cort levels 15 min following the onset of the test p  0.001 a. plasma cort did not differ 45 and 90 min post fst however the trajectory of the cort response differed.circulating plasma cytokines are elevated in aged mice and correlate with gut fitc-d permeabilityplasma cytokines were assessed as markers of peripheral inflammation at the end of the study.

e there was a trend towards increased plasma il-6 levels in aged mice p  0.07. f plasma il-10 did not differ between young and aged mice.

interestingly only significant increases in bacterial taxa were seen in aged mice compared to young .at phylum level the most prevalent microbial taxa in both sam- ple groups were bacteroidetes and firmicutes accounting for a combined relative abundance of 95 in the young and aged sam- ples .

together these highly abundant genera account for approximately 50 relative abundance at the genus level in both aged and young mice.several statistically significant changes in bacterial groups were observed in aged mice .

at the phylum level tm7 was sig- nificantly higher in aged mice p  0.01. at family level abundance less than 1 significant increases in porphyromondaceae p  0.01 tm7 uncultured p  0.01 clostridiaceae p  0.05 thermoanaerobacteraceae p  0.05 desulfovibrionaceae p  0.05 and oxalobacteraceae p  0.05 were seen in aged mice compared to young.

genera odoribacter was much higher in the aged group 5.14 than in the young mice 0.16 p  0.01. in addition aged mice had significant increases in other bacterialfig.

interestingly in aged mice the relative abundance of members of the family porphyromonadaceae was significantly and negatively correlated with the number of entries and time spent in the openarms of the elevated plus maze a and b p  0.05. that is as porphyromonadaceae increased in caecal contents so did anxiety-like behaviour in aged mice.

p  0.05.and aged mice demonstrated a preference for a novel conspecific over a novel object aged mice did not exhibit a preference for novel mice when presented with the choice between novel and familiar mice.

