with rising rates of obesity the issue of nafld is becoming more and more pressing especially as there are currently no effective drug treatments for the condition.gut microbiota have been implicated in the development of obe- sity and the metabolic syndrome.8 germ-free mice who were fed a high-fat high-sugar diet gained less weight than ordinary mice fed the same diet.9 germ-free mice were then given gut microbiota from normal mice resulting in increased body fat.

mice treated with the metabolic syndrome gut microbiota developed raised blood glucose and insulin levels and evidence of hepatic steatosis suggest- ing that the metabolic syndrome phenotype can be transferred via transfer of stool microbiota.10gut microbiota produce scfas such as acetate propionate and butyrate from digestion of carbohydrates in the colon.

the mice who received microbiota transplants from the non-aah donor gained significantly more weight than those who received microbiota from the severe aah donor.

parasutterella excrementihominis was found to make up 8.56 of non-aah mouse microbiota but represented only 0.001 in severe aah donors and was absent in severe aah-treated mouse microbiota suggestive of a possible protective effect from this bacteria.metabolites in severe aah-treated mice were also differentwith alterations in bile acid composition.

microbial communities were similar in psc patients with and with- out ibd.23 while the gut microbial profile in patients with psc is distinct from patients with uc without biliary disease and healthy controls another study assessing microbiota obtained from mucosal samples found an enrichment of blautia and barnesiellaceae.24 fur- thermore several observations support the gut microbiota being directly involved in the pathogenesis of psc with animal models of small bacterial overgrowth showing psc-like changes in the liver which can be counteracted by antibiotics and cultured cholangio- cytes from patients with psc that seem hypersensitive to pamps such as lipopolysaccharide lps.

faecal microbiota transplantationfaeces from healthy volunteers fmt have been used with excellent success rates in recurrent clostridium difficile infection to re-popu- late the gut with healthy intestinal flora and are approved by nice in the uk for this indication faecal microbiota transplant for recur- rent c. difficile infection interventional procedures guidance ipg485 published date march 2014. there have to-date been only a handful of human studies examining fmt in liver disease.

direct manipulation of the microbiota without drugs may be achieved via probiotic or synbiotic therapy or eventually whole microbiota transplants in the form of fmt.

salivary microbiota reflects changes in gut microbiota in cirrhosis with hepatic encephalopathy.

the use of nonculture-depen- dent techniques such as 16s rrna sequencing and more recently metagenomic analysis has been key in these advances allowing sequencing of whole populations of microbiota in a short period of time.

as the liver receives the majority of its blood supply directly from the microbiota laden gut via the portal vein inherently the host microbiome and the liver become intimately linked.

this article will examine in detail the role of the gut microbiota in the pathogen- esis and progression of chronic liver disease and tease out how modulation of the gut microbiome might offer novel therapeutic targets.there is a wealth of data to link conditions such as non-alco- holic fatty liver disease nafld alcohol-related liver disease ald and primary sclerosing cholangitis psc with an altered and potentially dysfunctional gut microbiome.

the ultimate therapy may thus involve transplanting what might be perceived as a healthy gut micro- biome from a non-obese healthy donor to a patient with chronic liver disease an evolving therapy referred to as faecal microbiota transplantation fmt.

the gut microbiota includes not only bacteria but also includes viruses and fungi.

there are thousands of different bacteria but the main phyla represented include bacteroidetes firmicutes and actinobacteria.4 many differ- ent factors influence microbiota composition including diet age and comorbid conditions.

in children the microbiota vary depending on mode of delivery and whether or not the child was breast-fed.

