thus we pres- ent that their microbiota is richer and differs in predicted functionality from treatment naive hiv progressors resembling the microbiota of hiv negative controls.

inter-individual variation in the gut microbiota than the viremic patients and principal coor- dinate analysis pcoa revealed that ec clustered separately indicating a different gut microbiome compared to other hiv-infected individuals.use of metagenomic techniques has illuminated the complex interactions between the host metabolic activ- ities and gut microbial species in several diseases.

number of observed bacterial genera was significantly lower in naive patients as compared to the other groups a. richness indices chao-1 b and ace c were reduced in naive but no significant differences were observed between ec and negative.

levels of lbp commonly used as a marker of microbial translocation were significantly increased in naive group as compared to others.tryptophan levels in plasma were reduced in naive as compared to both ec and negative.

in a previous work differences in the bacterial com- position of gut microbiota between art naive hiv patients and ec were observed at the phylum level with an enrichment of bacteroidetes and a reduction of actinobacteria in ec.

thus xanthurenic and kynurenic acid levels were lower in naive as compared to negative in contrary anthralinic acid levels and kynureninetryptophan kt-ratio were increased in naive vs ecnegative.

in conclusion ec have richer gut microbiota than untreated hiv patients with unique bacterial signatures and a distinct metabolic profile which may contribute to control of hiv.progressive hiv-1 infection is characterized by depletion of cd4 t cells in gut-associated lymphoid tissue followed by immune activation gut microbiota dysbiosis and microbial translocation-.

hence at the kegg level ii we found that the predicted pathway of carbohydrate metabolism was signifi- cantly reduced in the gut bacterial metagenome of ec as compared to both naive and negative patients.

herein we explored the microbiome of 16 elite controllers ec 32 antiretroviral therapy naive progressors and 16 hiv negative controls.

openreceived 26 january 2017accepted 15 june 2017published online 24 july 2017richer gut microbiota with distinct metabolic profile in hiv infected elite controllersjan vesterbacka1 javier rivera2 kajsa noyan3 mariona parera2 ujjwal neogi3 malu calle4 roger paredes 2456 anders sonnerborg13 marc noguera-julian 24  piotr nowak1gut microbiota dysbiosis features progressive hiv infection and is a potential target for intervention.

ns non significant indicates p-value 0.05.in the current work we investigated if hiv infection differently affects the gut microbiome in patients with progressive hiv infection and ec.

proportions of cd4 t-regulatory cells tended to be higher in negative compared to ec p 0.07. the level of immune activation of cd4 and cd8 t-cells in blood cd48 t-cell ratio and by expression of hla-dr cd38 was similar in ec and negative but significantly lower compared to naive group table .richness diversity and composition of fecal microbiota.

additionally we included 16 hiv negative controls negative.

all viremic progressors had to be art naive naive.

two naive patients had chronic hepatitis b infection whereas two ec and two naive had chronic hepatitis c infection.

