these data show that rnase 7 contributes to the capacity of human stratum corneum to control the growth of c. amycolatum.figure 4. rnase 7 contributes to the antimicrobial activity of human stratum corneum against c. amycolatum.a to test the neutralizing activity of the rnase 7 antibody c. amycolatum was incubated for 3 h at 37 degc with rnase 7 1 ugml r7 together with a specific rnase 7 neutralizing antibody r7  r7-ab.

here we show that keratinocytes are able to detect the presence of c. amycolatum leading to the epidermal growth factor receptor egfr-dependent induction of the antimicrobial protein rnase 7. c. amycolatum-mediated induction of rnase 7 was also confirmed in a human 3d skin equivalent.

although c. amycolatum is a normal inhabitant of human skin there is increasing evidence that c. amycolatum has the capacity to act as an opportunistic pathogen causing skin and soft tissue infections.c.

in line with these experiments the use of egfr-blocking antibody cetuximab also significantly decreased the c. amycolatum-mediated rnase7 gene and protein expression infigure 2. c. amycolatum-induced rnase 7 expression in keratinocytes is mediated by the epidermal growth factor receptor egfr.

bars represent 50 um.figure 3. rnase 7 exhibits antimicrobial activity against c. amycolatum and c. xerosis.

a c. amycolatum and b c. xerosis were incubated with the indicated concentrations of rnase 7 in 10 mm sodium phosphate buffer ph 7.4 containing 1 bhi and 0.05 bsa.

.rnase 7 exhibits antimicrobial activity against c. amycolatum and c. xerosis.

to determine whether rnase 7 is able to restrict the growth of corynebacteria we incubated c. amycolatum and c. xero- sis with different concentrations of rnase 7 in a microdilution assay for 3 h. as shown in fig.

rnase 7 dose-dependently inhibited the growth of c. amycolatum and c. xerosis.

indicating that the ribonuclease activity of rnase 7 is not crucial for its antibacterial activity against c. amycolatum.rnase 7 contributes to the antimicrobial activity of human stratum corneum against c. amy- colatum.

our data show that rnase 7 exhibits potent antimicrobial activity against c. amycolatum and c. xerosis.

in support of this hypothesis our results show that the capacity of stratum corneum to inhibit the growth of c. amycolatum was reduced when rnase 7 was inactivated by a blocking antibody.this study demonstrates for the first time that keratinocytes are able to sense the presence of corynebacteria leading to an increased expression of rnase 7. the induction of rnase 7 by c. amycolatum in keratinocytes required the egfr.

the functional relevance ofthese findings was demonstrated by potent antimicrobial activity of rnase 7 against c. amycolatum andc.

in addition the capacity of human stratum corneum to restrict the growth of c. amycolatum was significantly attenuated when rnase 7 was inactivated by a specific rnase 7-neutralizing antibody.

taken together the interaction of rnase 7 with c. amycolatum indicates that rnase 7 may function as important effector molecule to control the growth of corynebacteria on human skin.nondiphtheriae corynebacteria are abundant members of the normal microbiota of human healthy skin and mucosal surfaces.

