as a result of these tight pharmacokinetic controls bile acid concentrations vary markedly between compartments in the body ranging from high millimolar in the biliary tract and gallbladder to low millimolar in the intestine and colon to low micromolar in the systemic circulation 8. the membrane carriers that maintain the enterohepatic circulation of bile acids are known and include specific transporters expressed on the sinusoidal and canalicular membranes of the hepatocyte and on the apical brush border and basolateral membranes of the ileal enterocyte 9. in ileum the apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter asbt or ibat slc10a2 and the heteromeric transporter osta-ostb ost  organic solute transporter slc51a-slc51b mediate these steps 10. these transporters help determine the turnover of bile acid ligands and control access to the intracellular bile acid receptors in important target cells.feedback regulation of hepatic bile acid synthesis intestinal bile acid transporters and the fxr-fgf1519 pathwaybile acids are synthesized from cholesterol via 2 pathways the major classical pathway cholesterol 7a-hydroxylase cyp7a1 pathway that favors cholic acid biosynthesis and a minor alternative pathway that favors biosynthesis of chenodeoxycholic acid in humans or muricholic acid in mice 11. the expression of cyp7a1 the rate-limiting step in bile acid biosynthesis is tightly controlled by a complex network of regulatory mechanisms and has been the subject of intensive study.

after its synthesis and release by the enterocyte fgf1519 is carried in the portal circulation to the hepatocyte where it binds a complex of the bklotho accessory protein and fibroblast growth factor receptor-4 fgfr4 15. this initiates signaling via the docking protein fibroblast growth factor substrate 2 frs2a and a tyrosine phosphatase tyrosine- protein phosphatase non-receptor type 11 shp2 to stimulate extracellular-signal-regulated kinase erk12 activity and block activation of cyp7a1 gene expression by hnf4a and lrh-1.changes in asbt or osta-ostb expression has the potential to control the intracellular levels of bile acids and therefore influence fxr-mediated regulation of fgf1519 production.this is nicely illustrated by comparing the effects of inhibiting ileal apical versus basolateral membrane bile acid transport on bile acid metabolism 1617. as illustrated in figure 1 inactivation of the asbt in mice produces a classical severe bile acid malabsorption phenotype whereby excretion of bile acids in the feces is increased more then 5-fold whole body bile acid pool size is reduced and whole body bile acid pool composition is altered.the ratio of taurocholate to tauromuricholate in the bile acid pool shifts from approximately 11 which is typically found in wild type mice to greater than 51 suggesting a dramatic derepression of hepatic bile acid synthesis via the cyp7a1 pathway 16. in contrast to blocking apical bile acid uptake inactivation of osta in mice failed to increase fecal bile acid excretion or significantly alter whole body bile acid pool composition.

one line of evidence suggests that bile acid sequestrants induce hepatic bile acid synthesis and alter the bile acid species present in the systemic circulation thereby increasing activation of tgr5 in brown adipose tissue and increasing energy expenditure 30.interestingly changes in systemic levels of different bile acid species have also been implicated in the beneficial metabolic effects of bariatric surgery 31-33. a second line of evidence suggests that bile acid sequestrants act by increasing delivery to the colon of bile acids which signal through tgr5 on enteroendocrine l-cells to increase production of glp-1 3435 an incretin hormone with potent anti-diabetic actions.

investigation beginning in the 1960's showed that hepatic bile acid synthesis and cyp7a1 activity was suppressed after administration of exogenous bile acids and induced when bile acid return to the liver was blocked by administration of bile acid sequestrants or by biliary diversion 12. this negative feedback regulation of cyp7a1 was shown to be transcriptional and involve the bile acid-activateddawsonpage 3nuclear receptor fxr.

in pfic2 inherited mutations in the bile salt export pump bsep abcb11 lead to loss of canalicular bile acid export hepatocellular accumulation of bile acids and subsequent injury 40. by contrast less is known regarding the mechanisms and signaling pathways underlying the potential cytotoxic effects of bile acids in other cell types and in extra-hepatic tissues 45. in theory dysregulated expression of the asbt and osta-ostb may lead to bile acid accumulation and injury in ileal enterocytes or in the bile acid transporting epithelium of the biliary tract and renal proximal tubules which express the same complement of transporters.

however a similar imbalance has also been described in some animal models of necrotizing enterocolitis a disease characterized by necrosis of the distal ileum and proximal colon in premature infants 44. outside of inflammatory bowel disease ileal atrophy is not often seen in the absence of duodenojejunal atrophy 45. however cases of apparent primary ileal villous atrophy piva and bile acid malabsorption of unknown etiology have been reported 46-48. the relationship of the intestinal bile acid transporters to the pathogenesis of piva and similar disorders remains to be determined.acknowledgmentsthis work was supported by national institutes of health grant dk047987.referencescopple bl li t. pharmacology of bile acid receptors evolution of bile acids from simple detergents to complex signaling molecules.

1. schematic of differential effects of blocking ileal apical versus basolateral bile acid transport on bile acid metabolismrelative to wild type mice fecal bile acid excretion is increased almost 7-fold in asbt knockout mice.

the best-studied bile acid receptors are the farnesoid x receptor fxr and g protein-coupled receptor 1 gpbar1 also called tgr5 or membrane-type receptor for bile acids m-bar but the list of bile acid receptors also includes other nuclear receptors such as the pregnane x receptor pxr and vitamin d receptor vdr and other g protein- coupled receptors such as the sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 2 s1pr2 and muscariniccorresponding author paul a. dawson phd division of pediatric gastroenterology hepatology and nutrition emory university school of medicine health science research building hsrb 1760 haygood drive suite e200 office e206 atlanta georgia dawsonpage 2receptors m2 and m3 12. it is important to note that bile acids also signal through a5b1- integrin 3 and can induce membrane perturbations that activate pathways involving membrane-associated proteins such as nadph oxidases and phospholipase a2 45. by direct and indirect mechanisms bile acids activate protein kinase c epidermal growth factor receptor and the map kinase pathways p38 mapk pi3k-kinase-akt extracellular signal-related kinase erk and c-jnk n-terminal kinase jnk 6. the ability of bile acids to signal through these myriad pathways depends in part on their local concentration and their chemical structure.

this review discusses the contribution of an important component of the enterohepatic circulation the intestinal bile acid transporters to bile acid signaling.enterohepatic circulation of bile acidsafter their synthesis in the hepatocyte bile acids are secreted into bile and stored in the gallbladder or small intestinal lumen.

however whole body bile acid pool size was reduced almost to the same extent as observed for inactivation of the asbt 17. overall the phenotype suggested impaired regulation of hepatic bile acid synthesis and as illustrated in figure 2 can be explained by alterations in gut-liver fxr-fgf15 signaling.

in osta-- versus asbt-- mice total ileal fgf15 mrna expression isincreased almost 10-fold and this inversely correlates with approximately 8-fold reductions in liver cyp7a1 mrna expression 9-fold reductions in liver microsomal cyp7a1 enzyme activity and 7-fold reductions in fecal bile acid excretion.dawsonpage 4bile acid-regulation of metabolism bile acid transporters and the fxr- fgf1519 pathwaybile acids have been shown to modulate a variety of metabolic pathways involved in controlling glucose lipid and energy homeostasis.

loss-of-function asbt mutations in humans or mice yield a classical primary bile acid malabsorption phenotype with impaired intestinal bile absorption in the absence of ileal histological changes 164142. although loss of osta-ostb expression also blocks intestinal bile acid absorption the phenotype of osta-- mice includes a dramatic remodeling of the ileal morphology with features typically associated with epithelial damage and subsequent healing 1743. the molecular mechanisms linking the imbalance of osta-ostb and asbt expression and the altered ileal morphology have not yet been identified.

primary bile acid malabsorption defective in vitro ileal active bile acid transport.

1982 83804-811. pubmed 7106511oelkers p kirby lc heubi je dawson pa. primary bile acid malabsorption caused by mutations in the ileal sodium-dependent bile acid transporter gene slc10a2.

in contrast fecal bile acid excretion and bile acid pool composition is unchanged in osta-- versus wild type mice.

