2.consort diagram.marlatt et al.page 17eligibility criteria for the starch trial.table 1baseline characteristics of starch participants by sexa.table 2everyone n  63male n  21female n  42p-valueeveryone n  63male n  21female n  42p-valueaa african-american airg acute insulin response to glucose auc area under the curve bmd bone mineral density bmi body mass index bp blood pressure c caucasian cho carbohydrate di disposition index ee energy expenditure emcl extramyocellular lipid hba1c hemoglobin a1c hdl high-density lipoprotein cholesterol homa-ir homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance ihl intrahepatic lipid imcl intramyocellular lipid ldl low-density lipoprotein cholesterol nprq non-protein respiratory quotient rq respiratory quotient si insulin sensitivity index sg glucose effectiveness tat total adipose tissue tc total cholesterol vat visceral adipose tissue.avalues are raw means with 95 confidence intervals.bdata from the 12-h respiratory chamber and breath testing was available for n  62 and data from fsigtt and standard meal test data was available for n  61.cdata for male and female participants are adjusted for sleepee and values are least-squares means with 95 confidence intervals.baseline eating behavior and ratings of all starch participants by sexa.table 3everyone n  63 male n  21female n  42p-valuevas visual analog scale.avalues are raw means with 95 confidence intervals.baseline characteristics of starch participants by racea.table 4everyone n  59caucasian n  27 african-american n  32 p-valueeveryone n  59caucasian n  27 african-american n  32 p-valueairg acute insulin response to glucose auc area under the curve bmd bone mineral density bmi body mass index bp blood pressure cho carbohydrate di disposition index ee energy expenditure emcl extramyocellular lipid hba1c hemoglobin a1c hdl high-density lipoprotein cholesterol homa-ir homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance ihl intrahepatic lipid imcl intramyocellular lipid ldl low-density lipoprotein cholesterol nprq non-protein respiratory quotient rq respiratory quotient si insulin sensitivity index sg glucose effectiveness tat total adipose tissue tc total cholesterol vat visceral adipose tissue.avalues are raw means with 95 confidence intervals.bdata from the 12-h respiratory chamber and breath testing was available for n  58 and data from fsigtt and standard meal test data was available for n  57.cdata for african-american and caucasian participants are adjusted for sleepee and values are least-squares means with 95 confidence intervals.table 5baseline eating behavior and ratings of all starch participants by racea.everyone n  59 caucasian n  27 african-american n  32 p-valuevas visual analog scale.avalues are raw means with 95 confidence intervals.

all 63 participants 100 who completed baseline testing week 0 were retained throughout the entirety of the trial quite an achievement for such a demanding protocol.despite the inevitable recruitment challenges that arise with enrolling people with prediabetes into such a demanding clinical trial our comprehensive team of researchers and highly trained support staff developed recruitment adherence and retention methods that resulted in the successful enrollment of participants with prediabetes into the present starch trial.

2018 february  65 99-108. doi10.1016j.cct.2017.12.005.role of resistant starch on diabetes risk factors in people with prediabetes design conduct and baseline results of the starch trialkara l. marlatta ursula a. whitea robbie a. beyla courtney m. petersonab corby k. martina maria l. marcoc michael j. keenand roy j. martinad kayanush j. aryanad and eric ravussinaapennington biomedical research center baton rouge la 70808 united statesbdepartment of nutrition sciences university of alabama at birmingham birmingham al 35233united statescschool of food science and technology college of agriculture and environmental sciencesuniversity of california-davis davis ca 95616 united statesdschool of nutrition  food sciences college of agriculture louisiana state university baton rouge la 70803 united statesabstractdietary resistant starch rs might alter gastrointestinal tract function in a manner that improves human health particularly among adults at risk for diabetes.

while the effect of daily rs supplementation on metabolic health in adults with prediabetes will be assessed in future analyses the primary goals of the present manuscript were to 1 to describe the recruitment and screening process of adults with prediabetes for the starch trial 2 to outline the study methods and procedures and 3 to provide a comprehensivemarlatt et al.page 3metabolic phenotype of adults with prediabetes pre-intervention in cross-sectional baseline analyses of sex and race.study design  methodsstudy designthe starch trial was designed as a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled parallel-arm trial conducted at pennington biomedical research center pbrc.participants were recruited screened and randomized with a 11 allocation to 45 gday of resistant starch rs  amylose or amylopectin control for 12 weeks.

specifically 59 participants 29 rs 30 control of the total 65 participants who started the intervention actually completed the trial.

upon entering participants were immediately fed a standardized meal prepared by the metabolic kitchen that was 30 of their resting metabolic rate rmr 23 multiplied by an activity factor of 1.5. at 2100 h participants were fed a snack 20 of their rmr x 1.5 at week 0. macronutrient contents for both the meal and snack were 15 35 and 50 from protein fat and carbohydrate respectively.

participants fasted for at least 12-h prior to testing and alveolar air samples were collected after participants exhaled through a mouthpiece connected to a dual-bag system by a three-way valve.

2. of the 65 participants who started the intervention 2 participants were removed from the baseline analyses one participant displayed abnormally high insulin levels perhaps indicative of a congenital condition and another was diabetic yet was mistakenly enrolled.

this manuscript provides an overview of the strategy used to enroll people with prediabetes into the starch trial and describes methodologies used in the assessment of risk factors for diabetes.identifier starch nct01708694.

the clinical trial entitled role of resistant starch on diabetes risk factors starch was designed to examine the effects of daily rs supplementation in adults with prediabetes on metabolic outcomes--including insulin sensitivity and secretion ectopic fat energy expenditure and substrate oxidation inflammation food intake and gut microbiota.

in future analyses of primary outcomes from the starch trial themarlatt et al.page 4following sample size determination criteria were applied the primary outcome of the starch trial was the change in insulin sensitivity si.

future reporting of the starch trial will detail the impact of our 12-week dietary intervention resistance starch supplementation on metabolic risk factors for the development of type 2 diabetes.acknowledgmentsklm interpreted the data wrote paper uaw interpreted the data wrote paper rab analyzed data performed statistical analysis cmp conducted research wrote paper ckm designed the study conducted research wrote paper mlm designed the study wrote paper mjk designed the study wrote paper rjm designed the study wrote paper kja designed the study wrote paper er designed the study conducted research wrote paper has primary responsibility for final content.

overweight obese participants bmi  27 kgm2 and weight  143 kg age 35-75 y with confirmed prediabetes were eligible.

participants were randomized to consume 45 gday of rs rs  amylose or amylopectin control for 12 weeks.

both the rs and placebo were consumed in yogurt packets that were provided to the participants.

