in an interesting parallel it has been reported that the extent of bacterial accumulation in the intestine is inversely cor- related with worm life span  again supporting a key role for host-microbe interactions in determining health and longevity.influence of gut microbiota on host life spanthe most direct approach to examine the influence of the gut microbiota on host longevity is to examine the impact of axenic culture.

in a pioneering work brummel benzer and col- leagues reported that the presence of bacteria in the first week of adult life was required for a normal life span .

interestingly in the same study it was reported that late in life the presence of bacteria can shorten life span.

therefore bacterial-derived molecules can both shorten and prolong worm life span.future studiesoutstanding questionsgenetic studies using flies and worms have resulted in the identification of genes and pathways that modulate aging and life span in mammals including the tor ampk and autophagy pathways    -.

life sci.

2018 7593-101 httpsdoi.org10.1007s00018-017-2671-1cellular and molecular life sciencesrole of gut microbiota in aging-related health decline insights from invertebrate modelsrebecca i. clark1  david w. walker23received 26 september 2017  accepted 29 september 2017  published online 12 october 2017c springer international publishing ag 2017abstract studies in mammals including humans have reported age-related changes in microbiota dynamics.

indeed studies in flies and worms have resulted in the identification of a number of interventions that can slow aging and prolong life span.

in this review we discuss recent work using invertebrate mod- els to provide insight into the interplay between microbiota dynamics intestinal homeostasis during aging and life span determination.

studies in both flies and worms have identified a number of genetic and pharmaco- logical interventions that ameliorate aging and prolong life span  .

although invertebrate models have been successfully exploited to identify prolongevity interventions the patho- physiological underpinnings of most of these interventionsare not clearly defined.in recent years a number of studies have shown that the intestine represents a critical target organ for genetic manip- ulations that prolong life span -.

this has led to speculation regarding the role of the intesti- nal microbiota in maintaining host health throughout the life course.

however high maintenance costs limit its use in aging studies and par- ticularly in life span analysis.

both the fly and the worm have short life spans lasting on average 2 months and 2-3 weeks respectively in addition to fast reproduction an extensive repertoire of molecular and genetic tools andlow maintenance costs.

this makes them ideal for life span analyses that require large population sizes.the fly and the worm provide model systems of differ- ing complexity.

this ensures that the aging process and health status of individual animals can be followed in longitudinal studies that encompass the entire life span.

