several studies reported the inverse correlation between the incidence of allergic autoimmune diseases and various infectious diseases including hepatitis a gastrointestinal and parasitic infections.5 exposure to farming and cowsheds early in life prevents atopic diseases especially if the mother is exposed during pregnancy.allergic diseases such as atopic eczema food allergy asthma and allergic rhinoconjunctivitis are the most common chronic conditions in children from developed countries.

for example early-life colonization by clostridium difficile reportedly increases risk for childhood wheeze eczema and asthma8 whereas certain bifidobacteria and lactobacilli are considered protective.9 hence it remains unclear whether gut microbiota compositiondiversity is important for immune system development and avoidance of atopic disease or not.how these gut microbiota or infectious agents modulate the immune response they might regulate the immune response by multiple mechanisms such as reducing the inflammatory signaling cascade stimulation of regulatory t cell subsets tregs and toll-like receptors.

therefore it is important to recognize microorganisms as potential modulators of the immune system.in line with the hygiene hypothesis the decreasing incidence of infections in western countries is coincided with the increasing incidence of both autoimmune and allergic diseases.

depending on the interaction with the host microorganisms not only induce autoimmune diseases but also they may protect from autoimmunity or even abrogate an ongoing autoimmune process.

because of intimate relation between gut microbiota and host immune system gut microbiota effectively modulate the development of both the innate and adaptive immune system.

a reduction in firmicutes and bacteroides species and an overgrowth of proteobacteria have been observed in ibd patients.12 many studies have demonstrated the role of gut microbiota in modulating the systemic immune components besides the local gut immune system.

many studies suggested that reduced gut microbiota diversity during infancy has been associated with allergic diseases laterin childhood.67this phenomenon could be explained by the fact that the gut immune system reacts with new bacterial antigens and repeated exposures enhance thep.

to conclude future studies should concentrate on the interaction of gut microbes or infectious agents and host immune system to better understand the pathogenesis of autoimmune and allergic diseases.referencesfrank dn st amand al feldman ra boedeker ec harpaz n pace nr.

several scientists have worked in this field and linked some members of the gut microbiota to autoimmune diseases.

so far significant attention has been given on the role of gut microbiota in gastrointestinal tract related autoimmune diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease ibd.

34multiple factors such as genetics age and environment might contribute to the development of autoimmune diseases.

genetic polymorphisms within the bach2 locus in humans are associated with susceptibility to numerous autoimmune and allergic diseases.

nonspecific mechanisms include enhanced processing and presentation of self-antigens immune cell activation cytokine release and cell apoptosis necrosis.

raghunathdevelopment of immune regulation.

this lack of skewing of the th2th1 balance may be the result of the reduced production of il-12 and ifns by innate immune pathways that are stimulated by bacterial products through their toll-like receptors.

