oral antibiotics are effective at attenuating signs of ileitis in b27-tg rats 6. using a broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment we ameliorated the b27-associated gut inflammation in b27-tg rats as indi- cated by reductions in the severity of ileitis after 4 weeks of oral antibiotic administration figures 2a and b. surpris- ingly this treatment was associated with a reduction in the number of cd43low monocytes not only within the blood- stream but also within the bm of b27-tg rats figures 2c-figure 1. increased numbers of cd43low monocytes in the blood and bone marrow bm of hla-b27-transgenic b27-tg rats.

recent work in mice has shown that acute toxoplasma gondii-driven intestinal inflammation can trigger changes in the bone marrow bm compartment specifically bm- derived monocyte precursor cells wherein the function of these cells is fundamentally altered once they migrate into infected mucosal tissue 7.interestingly b27-tg animals lack mhc class ii-positive cd1031cd172alow migrating dendritic cells which18071808ansalone et alare involved in controlling intestinal immune responses 8. furthermore osteoclast precursors in b27-tg rats com- pared to those in control animals have enhanced differenti- ation in response to tumor necrosis factor tnf which contributes to the occurrence of b27-associated bone loss 9. it still remains to be determined however how changes in the myeloid compartment and b27-associated microbial dysbiosis could affect the central and peripheral myeloid compartments and how these processes might alter the maturation of these cells into osteoclasts.herein we have characterized monocyte popula- tions in b27-tg rats and investigated the effects of oral antibiotics on both intestinal pathology and the myeloid compartment.

the observed changes in monocytes in b27-tg rats have important implications for bone disease as we have demonstrated that cd43low monocytes are the major precursors for osteoclasts in rats.furthermore our data are consistent with the recent observation that bm cells from b27-tg rats have pro- nounced increased osteoclastogenic potential only in the presence of tnf 9. these data taken together may indi- cate that the b27-osteoclast phenotype directly results from an increase in the frequency of the cd43low monocytes in b27-tg animals.

transgenic tg rats that express the human hla- b27 and b2-microglobulin genes b27-tg rats develop multisystem inflammation that resembles the spa clinical spectrum in humans 12. inflammation in b27-tg rats starts in the intestine with ileitis occurring before 10 weeks of age followed by arthritis psoriasis and nail dystrophy 2. a link between gut pathology and peripheral symp- toms has been known for decades as indicated by the fact that animals raised in germ-free conditions develop neither colitis nor arthritis 3.there has been renewed interest in the intestinal environment and its contribution to the development of b27-associated disease.

it is now evident that the intestinal microbiome in b27-tg rats is profoundly different from that of healthy animals 4. importantly the development of gut pathology in b27-tg rats is associated with specific strains of commensal bacteria i.e.

rat monocytes within the blood and bm 1112 were identified as lin2igk2cd90 2ox-332ssclow cd172ahigh cells and subdivided on the basis of expression of cd43 details of the gating strategy are shown in supple- mentary figure 1 available on the arthritis  rheumatology web site at as previously reported 11 the majority of circulating monocytes in healthy wild-type wt rats were cd43high mean 6 sd 75.3 6 7.0. blood from b27-tg rats had a significantly altered ratio of cd43lowcd43high monocytes mean 6 sd 44.2 6 12.7 cd43low and54.0 6 11.5 cd43high figures 1a and b. this change corresponded to a substantially higher numberof circulating cd43low monocytes in b27-tg animals figure 1c.

interestingly the numbers of cd43high monocytes were not significantly altered in b27-tg rats figure 1c.this increased representation of cd43low mono- cytes was also observed within the bm of b27-tg rats when compared to wt and b7-tg control rats figures 1d-f. importantly no differences between wt rats and b7-tg control rats were evident in either the blood or bm figures 1b c e and f.effects of antibiotic treatment in reducing the num- bers of circulating cd43low monocytes via restoration of plasma ccl2 levels and reduction in the number of pre- cursor cells in the bm.

representative density plots show the distribution of bm monocytes in wt and b27-tg rats d. percentages e and absolute numbers f of cd43low and cd43high monocytes were determined in the bm of wt b7-tg and b27-tg animals.

remarkably 1 week after the initiation of antibiotics the plasma ccl2 levels in b27-tg rats returned to levels similar to those in wt con- trols figure 3e.furthermore we evaluated whether the antibiotic treatment could affect the levels of systemic cytokines in b27-tg rats.

original magnification 3 10. see figure 1 for other definitions.gut-bone axis in hla-b27-tg rats1813furthermore it has been demonstrated that bm precursors from b27-tg rats undergo enhanced tnf- driven but not rankl-driven osteoclastogenesis as compared to that in control rats 9 for results see sup- plementary figure 2 available on the arthritis  rheuma- tology web site at moreover the enhancement of osteoclast differentiation by tnf in b27-tg rats has been associated with both the production and activity of il-1a 9 the levels of which were reduced in the plasma of b27- tg animals upon treatment with oral antibiotics figure 3f.

this was supported by the fact that antibi- otic treatment not only reduced the intestinal inflammation in b27-tg rats but also normalized the levels of ccl2 and frequency of monocytes.interestingly classical monocytes are generated within the bm and when released into the bloodstream they represent an obligatory intermediate state for the dif- ferentiation of patrolling monocytes 1121. we observed a disconnect in this normal process in b27-tg rats which had higher levels of classical cd43low mono- cytes that persisted in both the central compartment bm and peripheral compartment.

to investigate the relationship between intestinal inflammation and the central and peripheral innate immune system in the pathogenesis of hla-b27- associated spondyloarthritis using an hla-b27-transgenic b27-tg rat model.methods.

the myeloid compartment of the blood and bone marrow bm of b27-tg rats as well as hla- b7-tg and non-tg rats as controls was evaluated by flow cytometry.

b27-tg rats had substantially higher num- bers of circulating lin2cd172a1cd43low monocytes as compared to control animals and this was significantly correlated with higher levels of plasma ccl2.

antibiotic treatment of b27-tg rats markedly reduced the severity of ileitis plasma levels of ccl2 and il-1a and number of bm and blood lin2cd172a1cd43low monocytes a cell subset shown in the present study to have the greatest in vitro osteoclastogenic potential.

