Lactate AsV SO42- 10 mM each m lactate 14 mM AsV 2.5 mM sulfate 10 mM   lactate 10 mM   lactate SO42- 10 mM each   lactate AsV sulfate 10 mM each MoO42- .. jwae  endogenous control without lactate AsV and sulfate  .

Lactate AsV SO42- 10 mM each m lactate 14 mM AsV and SO42- 10 mM   lactate 10 mM   lactate SO42-10 mM each   lactate AsV SO42- 10 mM each MoO42- ..  endogenous control without lactate AsV and sulfate  .

The complete reduction of arsenate 2.5 mM occurred within two days and sulfate reduction occurred subsequently reaching 6.8 mM sulfide at day 20 d. This observation strongly suggested that AsV was preferred as electron acceptor over sulfate most probably because AsV reduc- tion provides higher free energy -172 kJmol when coupled to the oxidation of lactate to acetate It is worth to note that AsV- reduction is necessary prior to sulfate reduction to achieve arsenic mineralization However in this assay we did not observe the formation of the yellowish precipitate sulfide accumulated in the liquid media  7 mM and the concentration of total dissolved arsenic remained the same as at the beginning of the experiment 2.5 mM.

The upper line in b indicates the theoretical concentration of AsIII expected from the reduction of AsV.Acetate accumulated in the assays that contained AsV while it was completely consumed in the assays without arsenate f. This observation can be explained by the presence of SRB which are able to metabolize acetate to CO2 and it is supported by the sulfide production in the assays with either lactate only or with lactate and sulfate that reached a sulfide concentration higher than 20 mM at the end of the experiment which was more than the expected by the incomplete oxidation of 10 mM of lactate d. Possibly SRB were able to metabolize acetate whereas arsenate-reducing bacte- ria were not.

Proper controls were set up as well endogenous without the addition of lactate sulfate or arsenate endogenous of sulfate-reduction with lactate only inhibition of sulfate-reduction with 25 mM Na2MoO4 lactate arsenate and sul- fate chemical basal medium with lactate arsenate and sulfate but without sediment sterile with lactate arsenate and sulfate but sterilized after the addition of the sediment.

The authors argued that sulfate-reduction occurred at a low rate which sug- gests that the formation of a biogenic arsenic sulfide precipitate is not only impacted by substrate availability but also by the rate of sulfate reduction.Regarding the substrate lactate was consumed totally in all the experiments except in the assay with MoO42- that showed somelactate at the end 2 mM which obeys to an excess of lactate when sulfate reduction was inhibited around 5 times the concentration necessary for the reduction of 9.2 mM of AsV supplemented in the assay e. Acetate was not consumed completely in any of the AsV amended assays which may point out to a detrimental effect of arsenic in the consumption of acetate.

11examined the growth of D. aurip- igmentum with 1 mM AsV 10 mM SO42- and 20 mM lactate and although they observed the formation of a yellowish precipitate the authors found that AsV was reduced to AsIII concurrently with sulfate reduction and the formation of As2S3.

Briefly serial dilutions 10-1-10-10 were inoculated in triplicate in serum vials contain- ing 9 mL of medium amended with 10 mM acetate 5 mM lactate and 5 mM arsenate.

This kind of precipitate was not formed in the assay prepared in the same way but inoculated with sediment CB possibly due to the lower concentration of iron in sediment CB.To prove if the microbiota of this sediment had the ability to use both electron acceptors at the same time when the carbon source was not limited a treatment with 14 mM lactate 2.5 mM AsV and 10 mM sulfate was assayed.

In the assay with lactate and sulfate the sulfide concentration 9.1 mM was very close to the concentration corresponding to the stoichiomet- ric reduction of the supplemented sulfate 10 mM.

