some bacteria of the gut are believed to play a role in gut motility and the start of inflammatory diseases of the gut while other bacteria have a protective function .

commensal bacteria foster a positive environment modulate adaptive and innate immune responses and prevent the adherence of pathogenic bacteria to the gastroin- testinal tract.

within the oral cavity commensal bacteria turned opportunistic bacteria are known to cause many diseases or conditions such as caries dental cavities gingivitis periodontitis peri-implantitis endodontic infections and tonsillitis.

even after the bacterial plaque or biofilm is removed in subgingival lesions with severe pd there is a high chance of re-colonization of those bacteria because of the prolif- eration of gram-negative bacteria in other sites of the oral cavity.

the bacteria in the oral cavity should have a greater proportion of gram-positive bacteria i.e.

veillonella and actinomyces and a lesser proportion of gram-negative bacteria common pathogenic bacteria in the oral cavity are gram-negative .

however bacteria can proliferate within this dental plaque and wreak havoc on the tooth and surrounding tissues.dental biofilms occur in three stages pellicle formationtable 2example of pathogenic microbiota of the oral cavity.some of these bacteria have been implicated in diseases such as periodontal disease and root canal infections.

these changes facilitate the gradual replacement of driver bacteria by passengers consisting of opportunistic pathogens or other bacteria with a competitive advantage in the disease process.

progression of the disease may be either suppressed by healthy passenger bacteria or promoted by pathogenic passenger bacteria because of these microbial colonization changes.of primary and permanent teeth caries root canals and dental appliances all change the microbiome of the oral cavity.

once bacteria reach the gingival sulcus it can enter the blood stream and affect various areas of the human body.

although gut microbiome has been shown to play a vital role in intestinal motility functions the role of oral bacteria in this setting remains to be investigated.

the bacteria in these microbiome communities communicate and function to protect the human body symbiotically.

studies have shown the constituents of oral bacteria directly relate to the constituents of the microbiota in the stool .

intestinal bacteria represent a complex microbiome.

the intestinal microbiota contains a plethora of bacteria with most of them being obligate anaerobes from the phyla bacteroides fir- micutes and lactobacilli .

