ruminis were found in patients than in the control group and l. mucosae was found solely in patients with rheumatoid arthritis 21.a recent chinese study compared the total number of 212 stool samples a total of 94 non-treated patients with rheumatoid arthritis and from 80 healthy unrelat- ed and 17 healthy related persons as well as 21 patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with dmards 22. the flora composition did not only differ the group of patients with rheumatoid arthritis from healthy per- sons but it also correlated with the activity of the dis- ease as well as partially with immunoglobulin concen- trations.

some authors have proposed to subject patients with early ra to eradication of prote- us urinary tract infection at an early stage in order to prevent disease progression 43 44. however further research is necessary to determine efficacy of such in- tervention.conclusionthe causal relationships between microbiome disor- ders and the immune reaction contributing to the devel- opment of rheumatoid arthritis have not been entirely explained is it the state of the immune system of the host with rheumatoid arthritis that causes such com- position of his microbiome is altered microbiome com- position the cause or the result of inflammation the most abundant group of intestinal microorganisms does not allow form specifying any bacteria species which would favor the development of rheumatoid arthritis and we are dealing here with complex mutual interac- tions between intestinal microorganisms and the im- mune system of the entire host's organism.

however a question can be raised whether as therapy partially restores the healthy microbiome the disturbance of its composi- tion is rather a coincidence or even a result of immune processes leading to rheumatoid arthritis.scher et al.

repeated inflam- mation leads to rheumatoid arthritis 39.in 1997 wilson et al.

front microbiol 2016 7 1081.kumar ps griffen al barton ja et al.

researchers of the uppsala university sweden demonstrated for animal arthritis models lack of relationship between the severity of arthritis and the presence of bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract and production of phsp-65 antibodies 20.vaahtovuo et al.

das28 acr 20 acr 50 and acr 70 indexes will be evaluated within the study 31.meta-analysis conducted by kaur et al.

five studies were included each with the number of partici- pants ranging between 29 and 55.on the other hand analysis of a cohort of american women including 292 cases of ra did not demonstrate an increased risk of ra among persons with periodontal disease in the history 33.although scher et al.

occurred solely in persons with ra 32.2 and 25.8 of these patients respectively independently of the intensification of the periodontal disease 34.zhang et al.

it has been suggested that the bac- teria originating from the periodontium penetrating to lower respiratory tracts through citrullination contribute to the development of the auto-immune process with- in the lungs thus they can constitute site of antibody production during early ra 19 35. scher et al.

these results support the hy- pothesis on proteus infection constituting ra etiological factor 40.in 1999 senior et al.

urinary tract infection was found in only 4 of healthy persons and in 33 patients with ra and proteus mirabilis infection was dominant in the latter group two-fold more frequent than e. coli.arabski et al.

puszczewicz m ed.. medical tribune polska warszawa 2010 75-78.tlaskalova-hogenova h stepankova r hudcovic t et al.

immunol lett 2004 93 97-108.vaahtovuo j munukka e korkeamaki m et al.

j rheumatol 2008 35 1500- 1505.qin j li r raes j et al.

