 12  qinghui meng1  yongxing chen1  2  min shen2  rui gao3 and 21 institute of environment and sustainable development in agriculture chinese academy of agricultural sciences beijing china 2 state key laboratory of sheep genetic improvement and healthy production xinjiang academy of agricultural and reclamation science shihezi china 3 the key laboratory of xinjiang endemic and ethnic diseases and department of biochemistry shihezi university school of medicine shihezi chinaedited by emilio m. ungerfeld instituto de investigaciones agropecuarias inia chilereviewed byrobin anderson agricultural research service usdaunited states sinead m. watersteagasc - the irish agriculture and food development authorityirelandcorrespondence shangquan gan rui gao specialty section this article was submitted to systems microbiologya section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 10 may 2017accepted 02 august 2017published 14 august 2017citation liu c meng q chen y xu m shen m gao r and gan s 2017 role of age-related shifts in rumen bacteria and methanogensin methane production in cattle.

heifers 9-10 months had lower methane production but higher methane production per dry matter intake dmi.

this shift may account for the age-related difference in rumen fermentation and methane production per dmi.keywords enteric methane production rumen microbiota dairy cow age-related microbiota high-throughput sequencingintroductionmethane is one of the most abundant greenhouse gasses in the atmosphere with a significant impact on global warming 28-times that of carbon dioxide  .

however the authors did not correlate changes in microbiota in different age groups with enteric methane production.methane production per kilogram of dry matter intake dmi is an important index for evaluating the potential methane production per head and is also a marker reflecting the state of rumen fermentation.

recently evaluated the trends in enteric methane production and feed efficiency across a wide age range of dairy cattle and detected differential methane production in heifers and lactating cows.

their study revealed a curvilinear relationship between age and methane production with methane production increasing with age in heifers 8-25 months but decreasing in adult cows 4-10 years.

we also previously measured enteric methane production in heifers and adult cows   using the sulfur hexafluoride sf6 tracer technique and showed an average of 35.1 2.8 gkg dmi for heifers 10 months significantly higher than 27.2 0.9 gkg dmi for adults 3-4 years p  0.05. in contrast another study reported no difference between  1-year-old heifers and  6-year-old cows fed ryegrass in terms of methane production per kilogram of dmi  .

data were presented as bar plots and box plots using spss version 20 for windows ibm new york ny united states.nucleotide sequence accession numbersthe sequences obtained from amplicon sequencing were deposited in the ncbi sequence read archive under accession number srp077855.resultsmethane production fermentation and real-time polymerase chain reaction pcrfeed intake performance and methane production in different age groups are shown in .

based on the same dietary regime heifers s1 produced the least methane but showed the highest level of methane production calculated by dmi which was significantly higher than in adult cows s2 and s3 p  0.05. there was no significant difference in methane production between the s2 and s3 groups p 0.105  .basal fermentation parameters were further compared including the concentrations of ammonia-n and the main vfas in rumen fluid .

the bi- plot showed strong correlations in s1 samples between methane production and ap ratio and in s2 and s3 between primary vfas and age which were negatively correlated with methane production.

however a comprehensive study of age effects on methane production and related changes in microbial communities and interactions was lacking.the results of the current study showed higher methane production per dmi in heifers aged 9-10 months compared with adults aged 45-65 and 96-120 months.

additionally real-time pcr analysis showed no obvious changes in methanogen population sizes and values relative to the total bacterial population size among age groups suggesting that the distinct interactions between methanobrevibacter phylotypes and their corresponding bacteria might play important roles in methane production.overall comparisons of rumen bacterial and archaeal communities and methane production in dairy cows of different ages suggested that the succession and interactions of microbial populations influence enteric methane production based on per kilogram of dmi.

cl and rg wrote the first draft and sg critically reviewed the manuscript.acknowledgmentsthis study was supported by grants from the doctor foundation no.2014bb014 and 2013bb020 and middle-aged scientific and technological innovation leading talent 2016bc001 of xinjiang production and construction corps.supplementary materialthe supplementary material for this article can be found online at figure s1  methane production in relation to age group in cattle.

it is therefore important to understand the influence of host age on the relationship between microbiota and methane production.

this study explored the age effect on the relationship between microbial communities and enteric methane production in dairy cows and heifers using high-throughput sequencing.

