while this may suggest that alterations in the vaginal microbi- ome is an unlikely explanation for the increased risk of hiv-1 acquisition in dmpa users the effect of dmpa use on the vaginal microbiome has not been fully eluci- dated and a comprehensive and well controlled assess- ment of the effect of hormonal contraceptives on the vaginal microbiome as it relates to hiv-1 susceptibility is still lacking.

although relatively stable throughout the rapid hormonal shifts of the menstrual cycle the major hormo- nal shifts that occur at puberty and menopause signifi- cantly change the composition of the vaginal microbiome from mainly anaerobic bacteria to a vaginal microbiome dominated by species of lactobacilli.

the ability of vaginal bacteria to manipulate mucosal immu- nity and barrier properties has the potential to result in enhanced susceptibility to infection particularly during a disturbance in the vaginal microbiome.despite the fact that the majority of hiv-1 infections in women occur as a result of heterosexual intercourse with an infected male partner the precise mechanisms of sex- ual transmission in the fgt remain elusive.

indeed an innate and adaptive inflammatory cascade in response to viral expo- sure in the fgt is necessary for the recruitment of target cells to the portal of entry and the establishment of a pro- ductive systemic infection.the vaginal microbiome can also influence suscepti- bility to hiv-1 via its intimate interaction with mucosal immunity in the vaginal tract.

pro-inflammatory cytokine levels in the vaginal fluid of women with bv are often upregulated suggesting that bv and perhaps microbial diversity in the absence of bv may be capable of inducing sub-clinical inflammatory responses in the vaginal mucosa which could alter disease susceptibility.

aids res ther 2017 1439doi 10.1186s12981-017-0169-4aids research and therapyrole of sex hormones and the vaginal microbiome in susceptibility and mucosal immunity to hiv-1 in the female genital tractdanielle vitali12 jocelyn m. wessels12 and charu kaushic12backgroundhuman immunodeficiency virus-1 hiv-1 infection remains one of the most serious health challenges in the world and the fastest growing phase of this pandemic is currently by heterosexual transmission in women .

lying superficial to the epithelial cells of the vaginal tract is the microbiome which exists in a symbiotic rela- tionship with the female host.

the current concept of a healthy vaginal microbiome includes a low-diversity lactobacillus rich environment.

four species of lactoba- cilli l. crispatus l. gasseri l. iners and l. jensenii are known to be the most common dominant species in the vaginal microbiome of 80-90 of caucasian and asian women and 60 of black and hispanic women reviewed in .

culture-based studies have shown that commensal bacteria do not elicit cytokine release from vaginal epithelial cells while pathogenic strains induce a strong pro-inflammatory response likely via activation of epithelial toll-like receptors tlrs and interaction with cervical antigen presenting cells.

heterosexual transmission models suggest that hiv-1 in the male ejac- ulate must first overcome numerous innate and adaptive immune factors in the vaginal lumen .

bacterial vaginosis bv is a symptomatic clinical condition diagnosed using the nugent score or amsel criteria characterized by a polymicrobial vaginal microbiome and overgrowth of anaerobes.

diversity of the cervicovaginal microbiome has also been shown to be associated with changes in the vaginal proteome which might serve to physically disrupt the mucosal barrier .

disruption of the epithelial barrier promotion of hiv-1 replication and transcytosis suppression of innate and adaptive immune responses and changes in the vaginal microbiome are all additional proposed mechanisms through which dmpamay increase the risk of hiv-1 transmission reviewed in .

by increase vaginal lactobacillus species and limiting tis- sue inflammation at the site of infection these potential therapeutics in combination with an hiv-1 vaccine may enhance protection against the acquisition or spread of hiv-1 infection.conclusionthe fgt is a key target site for hiv-1 transmission in women and the outcome of exposure to hiv-1 is likely determined by a number of factors that influence this mucosal microenvironment.

