exposure of the host to gut commensal species may serve as a priming signal to generate b-cell repertoires at sites different from the gut such as ealt thereby ensuring broad protection.keywords microbiota siga ocular surface proteome 16s metagenomicsistinct microbiota communities exist in the gut lungs skin and at the ocular surfaces.1-8 many studies have examined how resident commensal presence frames immune responses at different locations however much remains to be discovered about how these communities affect immunity at a distance.910 toward this end a recent study by de paiva and colleagues11 has shown that when gut microbiota is perturbed by antibiotic treatments ocular responses to desiccating stress are significantly influenced in a mouse model of sjogren's syndrome.

data show that the gf sw mice reconstituted with spf sw gut commensals induce higher levels of lg iga transcripts than gf sw mice reconstituted with spf c57bl6n gut commensals.to determine if gut commensal ecosystems can reconstitute iga transcript levels in the lgs gf sw mice were orally gavaged with fecal homogenate derived from either spf c57bl6n or spf sw mice.

to determine whether the presence of specific gut commensal species regulates siga levels and iga transcripts in the eye-associated lymphoid tissues ealt specific- pathogen-free spf swiss webster sw mice were treated with antibiotic cocktails germ- free gf sw mice were reconstituted with diverse commensal gut microbiota or monocolonized with gut-specific commensals.

additional evidence of the impact of the gut microbiota on ocular immunity has come from the work of nakamura and colleagues12 who observe that oral adminis- tration of antibiotics in a murine experimental autoimmune uveitis model improves uveitis scores suggesting that there may be protective and uveitis-inducing populations of bacteria in the gut.

these data have been expanded by the observation that retina-specific autoreactive t cells are developed in the gut and subsequently home to the retina causing uveitis.13 cumulatively these studies advocate that maintenance of specific bacterial ecosystems in the gut affects ocular disease susceptibility.

one- way anova analysis of iga qpcr of lg tissues showed significant fold increases of 11.8 p0.0017 and 259 p 0.001 in gf sw mice gavaged with spf c57bl6n gut commensals and gf sw mice gavaged with spf sw gut commensals respectively fig.

we chose to evaluate the impact of the obligate anaerobe b. acidifaciens an abundant gut commensal identified in spf sw mice on inducing iga transcripts in the gut and ealt.

5 was noted in the colons at 21 days relative to day 0. interestingly lg iga mrna transcript levels at 21 days also increased 4.8-fold p 0.0001 1-way anova with dunnett's comparison relative to day 0. gut siga protein levels increased after 14 days 51 ngml p 0.0001 1-way anova with dunnett's multiple comparisons test than that of day 14 48 ngml p 0.0002 1-way anova with dunnett's multiple comparisons test implying reconstitution of the gut compartment.

the spf sw mice presented with richer gut commensal diversity than the spf c57bl6n mice and this correlated with elevated levels of iga transcripts and siga.our findings are reminiscent of but extend the recent observations that balbc mice have a richer microbial diversity and higher iga expression than c57bl6j mice in the gut.

3. these data support the conclusion that gut commensal diversity correlates with iga transcript levels as gf sw engrafted with spf c57bl6n-derived microbiota had significantly lower transcript levels and lower diversity.as expected 16s bacterial metagenomic profiling demon- strated different gut commensal diversity in the two genotypes of mice with the bacteroides genus being more prominent in the spf sw mice fig.

cumulatively the data show that gut reconstitution of gf sw mice with b. acidifaciens induced a robust gut and ocular iga transcription.species in the spf sw mice b. acidifaciens was highly abundant in spf sw mice.

consistently il-1b knockout mice showed a breakdown in iga-mediated gut immune homeostasis and a significant decline in bacteroidesd'argenio v salvatore f. the role of the gut microbiome in the healthy adult status.

oral antibiotic cocktail intake significantly reduced gut commensal presence while maintaining ocular surface commensal levels reduced siga and iga transcripts in ealt.

analysis of gut microbial communities revealed that spf sw mice carried abundant bacteroides organisms when compared to spf c57bl6n mice with b. acidifaciens being the most prominent species in spf sw mice.

monocolonization of gf sw mice with b. acidifaciens a strict gut anaerobe resulted in significant increase of iga transcripts in the ealt implying generation of b-cell memory.conclusions.

