found that patients with recent-onset ra in north american populations carried an increased abundance of p. copri and a reduced abundance of bacteroides in the gut 10. we also confirmed that approximately one-third of japanese patients with recent-onset ra had an increased abundance of p. copri in the gut 12.another study based on metagenomic shotgun sequencing showed that ra patients in china had an increased abundance of l. salivarius in the gut on the tooth and in the saliva 11. however the abundance of p. copri in the gut was only elevated in the first year after disease onset.

we have shown that some japanese ra patients carry increased numbers of prevotella copri inthe intestine and have used gnotobiotic tools to show that a p. copri-dominated microbiota induced th17 cell-dependent arthritis in mice 12. in contrast another study showed that p. histicola suppresses the development of arthritis 13. these results support the idea that different prevotella species have different effects on arthritis.microbiota and rarheumatoid arthritis is a chronic autoimmune inflammatory disease characterized by auto-antibody production and destruction of bone in multiple joints  14. recent studies have demonstrated that over 100 genetic susceptibility loci are involved in ra 1516. however the environmental factors that affect the development of ra are not fully understood.

showed that the abundance of p. copri was elevated in untreated recent-onset ra patients 10. by contrast the numbers of p. copri were reduced in patients with chronic ra patients with psoriatic arthritis and healthy volunteers.

recent studies have suggested that the composition of the microbiota is altered in type 1 diabetes multiple sclerosis and autism 678. moreover dysbiosis has been reported in patients with rheumatoid arthritis ra in the united states china and finland 91011.here we review previous findings regarding the role of microbiota in human ra and mouse models of arthritis.

investigated the composition of the microbiota in patients with early ra or fibromyalgia using a technique based on flow cytometry 16s rrna hybridization and dna staining 9. they found that the bacteroides fragilis subgroup the genus bifidobacterium and eubacterium rectale-clostridium coccoides are reduced in ra patients.using 16s rrna gene sequencing scher et al.

igg antibody responses were observed in 13 of new-onset ra patients and 20 of chronic ra patients.

however the mechanistic link between the increased number of p. copri in the gut and arthritis is unknown.therefore we produced intestinal microbiota-humanized mice and analyzed the severity of their arthritis 12. it has been reported that skg mice develop th17 cell-dependent autoimmune arthritis clinically resembling human ra 29. we used gf-skg mice which contain no bacterium in their gut.

the skg mice colonized with a p. copri-dominated microbiota from ra patients ra-skg mice showed increased numbers of th17 cells in the large intestine.

used liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to identify an hla- dr-presented peptide t cell epitope from a 27-kda p. copri protein pc-p27 30. the peptide was detected in the synovial tissue synovial fluid mononuclear cells and peripheral blood mononuclear cells pbmcs of some ra patients.

from these observations they concluded that p. copri may contribute to the pathogenesis of ra.

several studies have suggested that increased abundance of p. copri was observed in early ra patients.

in addition p. copri-monocolonized skg mice showed th17 cell-dependent arthritis development upon fungal injection thus indicating that dysbiosis dominated by p. copri contributes to arthritis development.

a recent study suggested that p. histicola isolated from the commensal bacteria in the human gut reduced the severity of collagen-induced arthritis in hla-dq8 mice 13. p. histicola was isolated from the human duodenum and cultured on agar plates for further experiments.

the researchers also demonstrated that sequences of p. histicola were very different from those of p. copri.these results suggest that not all prevotella species are arthritogenic and that some of prevotella such asp.

moreover gf mice inoculated with the microbiota of the responders showed improved glucose metabolism with an increased abundance of p. copri in the gut.by contrast another study in denmark showed that p. copri induced insulin resistance 32. the researchers investigated the correlation between the gut microbiota and serum metabolites in 277 non- diabetic individuals.

