s6 b and c with equal colonization at low-p 100 mm p ms agar 89.6 of colonized roots and high-p 1000 mm 88.6 of colo- nized roots conditions kh2 test p  0.87. however under low-p conditions fungal inoculation significantly increased root length 12 t test p  0.02 and root surface area 19 t test p  0.001 while leaving shoot biomass t test p  0.05 and shoot p concentration t test p  0.05 unchanged si appendix fig.

fungi can promote plant p acquisition by different mechanisms like p solubilization p min- eralization or hyphal p transfer.

one plausible explanation is that as observed for am symbiosis translocation of p by the fungus does not necessarily translate into increased p content in the plant since the plant can tune-down the direct p uptake pathway and use the mycorrhizal pathway instead 41. when reintroduced into its native low-p soil fungus f229 successfully colonized plant roots and enhanced shoot growth and shoot p concentration fig.

we cannot exclude however p delivery from fungus to host as a consequence of lysis of fungal cells a mechanism that was proposed for nutrient transfer in orchid mycorrhizae 42. overall our work on f229 p transfer and studies on s. indica p transfer 13 14 c. tofieldiae p transfer 12 heteroconium chaetospira n transfer 43 and metarhizium robertsii n transfer44 provide accumulating evidence that fungus-to-plant nutrient transfer generally assigned to classical mycorrhizal symbioses 10 is more common than previously thought.plant-colonizing fungi rely on hydrolytic enzymes including cazymes for degradation of the plant cell wall and penetration into the host tissue 45 46 and changes in the cazyme reper- toires have been associated with lifestyle changes in plant- associated fungi 21 22. the evolution from pathogenic ances- tors toward the beneficial endophytic lifestyle of f229 was accompanied by the enlargement of its cazyme arsenal fig.

means were compared with anova followed by tukey's hsd p  0.05. permanova on bray-curtis dissimilarities was conducted to study the effect of different factors on the structure of fungal communities using the adonis function of the vegan package at p  0.05. as previously performed in a study on metal bioaccumulation in plants 51 we calculated a p-accumulation factor p concentration in the plant shoot divided by the plant-available p con- centration in the soil.

the effect of the environment type on fungal community structure increased from bulk soil perma- nova p  0.1 over rhizosphere soil permanova p  0.002 21 of variance to the root compartment permanova p  0.003 30 of variance si appendix table s3.

the effect of the soil's geographical origin permanova p  10-4 21 of variance decreased from the bulk soil 67 of variance over the rhizosphere 49 to the root compartment 30 whereas the p-fertilization effect overall was smaller permanova p  10-4 6.3 of variance and stable across the three compartments 14 13 and 15 of variance in bulk soil rhizosphere and root communities respectively si appendix table s3.

endophytic microbes can promote plant p acquisition by different processes including p solubilization and mineralization 11 or transfer of p in the form of soluble orthophosphate.

s. indica was also demonstrated to participate in p uptake of maize plants depending on the expression of a fungal high-affinity phosphate transporter 14. these studies provided proof of concept for p transfer from fungi to nonmycorrhizal hosts however the ecological relevance of these interactions remains unclear as it is not known whether these endophytes can promote plant p uptake under native low-p soil conditions and only c. tofieldiae was shown to be a natural inhabitant of a. thaliana roots.

while addition of heat-killed fungal suspension nega- tively affected plant growth fungal inoculation translated into 52 higher shoot biomass mann-whitney test p  3.10-13 and61 higher shoot p concentration mann-whitney test p  2.10-4 compared with the water control fig.

indeed permanova analysis within each compartment showed that the effect of the plant growing condi- tion on the fungal community steadily decreased from the bulk soil p  10-5 83 over the rhizosphere p  10-5 59 to the rootp  10-5 49 si appendix table s3 suggesting that root fungal communities were more robust relative to extraradical as-semblages.

3. fungus f229 otu00005 increases a. alpina growth and p contentunder native low-p soil conditions and is capable of hyphal p transfer to the root in vitro.

we could imagine two possible reasons explaining this discrepancy i the young plants in the microcosms accumulated less p in their vacuoles the primary intracellular compartments for inorganic phosphate than the much older wild plants or ii differences in properties of soil in microcosms relative to soil at col du galibier limited p uptake which was partially alleviated through root colonization with f229.

plant-associated microbes can influence plant fitness by modulating plant growth root architecture nu- trient acquisition or drought and disease resistance 1-3. thus the plant microbiota can be seen as an extension of the plant genome in the sense that it can increase the plant's adaptation capacity 4. this is illustrated by the arbuscular mycorrhizal am symbiosis established between land plants and glomeromycota fungi which is thought to have facilitated the adaptation of plants to a terrestrial life 5. it is estimated that 80 of the vascular plant species 6 receive phosphorus p and other nutritional elements from these fungi in exchange for photosynthates 7. the ability to form an am symbiosis has been lost independently in several flowering plant lineages including the brassicaceae family through the loss of essential symbiosis genes during evolution 8. given the beneficial effect of am fungi on plant p uptake the question of whether nonmycorrhizal species thrive due to the exploitation of alternative p-mining strategies forms the basis of current research 9. in the context of the plant holobiont i.e.

on the fungal communities associated with a. alpina accession pajares pm.results showed that fungal alpha diversity related to the num- ber of taxa per sample estimated by the shannon diversity in- dex was highly determined by the compartment type p  2.10-10 70 of variance si appendix table s3 with lower values in root relative to rhizosphere and bulk soil compartments anova and tukey's hsd p  0.05 fig.

