however it is fundamentally unclear whether and how root hairs can act as a determinant of the bacterial communities thriving outside of the root corpus in the rhizosphere.in this study we used barley as an experimental model to gain novel insights into the role played by root hairs in shaping the rhizosphere microbiota.

in particular we compared the bacterial communities thriving in association with two barley varieties with fully developed root hairs karat and dema and their backcrossed inbred lines either lacking root hairs designated rhl1.a or whose root hair development was interrupted at an early stage shortly after bulge formation designated rhp1.b  .

taken together our results indicate that the presence and function of root hairs are a determinant of the bacterial community thriving in the rhizosphere and their perturbations can markedly impact on the recruitment of individual members of the microbiota.keywords rhizosphere microbiota plant-microbe interactions root hairs barleyintroductionthe rhizosphere the thin layer of soil tightly adhering to plant roots and influenced by plant growth and development represents an environment whose chemical and physical properties are markedly distinct from unplanted soil   .

enriched in themutant rhp1.b in a soil-independent manner and representing 6-12 of the entire rhizosphere community supplementary database s1.discussiondespite the observed perturbations in rhizosphere formation provoked by root hair mutations     our data suggests that fully developed root hairs are not necessary for microbial proliferation at the barley root- soil interface .

together these data indicate that at a higher taxonomic rank the recruitment of a distinctive rhizosphere microbiota is virtually unaffected by the root hair mutations characterized in this study.yet when we increased the taxonomic resolution of our investigation to the otus level we identified clear signatures of root hair development on microbiota recruitment.

the second striking feature is the fact that in at least one of the soils tested the mutant rhp1.b extremely short root hairs hosted a more distinct profile compared to the hairless mutant rhl1.a and wild- type plants with fully developed root hairs .

this observation suggests that root hair length per se is not sufficient to explain the diversification of the microbiota observed between the tested genotypes.a previous molecular characterization of the genetic pairs karat-rhl1.a and dema-rhp1.b which identified a subset of proteins differentially accumulated in these genotypes    might offer a direct link to the recruitment cues of the barley microbiota perturbed by root hair mutations.

further studies aimed at deciphering the impact of root hairs or the lack thereof on barley rhizodeposition will contribute to test these hypotheses.although the impact of root hair mutations on the rhizosphere microbiota is clearly modulated by the soil type at the highest resolution i.e.

thus the effect of root hair mutations on the composition of the rhizosphere bacterial microbiota could be at least in part the consequence of a perturbation of the symbiotic interactions between plant roots and soil fungi.however it is worth mentioning that when barley plants are grown under soil stress conditions the yield of root hair mutants although of different genetic backgrounds compared to the ones characterized in our study is significantly lower compared with the one of wild-type plants    .

in particular the distinct composition of the root hair mutant microbiota - might mirror an impairment of host- microbiota interactions needed for optimum plant growth under limiting nutrient supplies.these two hypotheses are not necessarily mutually exclusive the stress-induced microbiota may be represented by an increased proportion of pgprs whose metabolic capacitiescannot compensate for the root hair mutations.

2012. a comparative analysis of proteins that accumulate during the initial stage of root hair development in barley root hair mutants and their parent varieties.

2013. asymmetric growth of root epidermal cells is related to the differentiation of root hair cells in hordeum vulgare l.. j. exp.

2015. contrasting responses of root morphology and root-exuded organic acids to low phosphorus availability in three importantfood crops with divergent root traits.

as root hairs play a critical role in resource exchanges between plants and the rhizosphere we hypothesized that they can act as a determinant of the microbiota thriving at the root-soil interface.

to test this hypothesis we took advantage of barley hordeum vulgare mutant lines contrasting for their root hair characteristics.

