in general these findings indicate that acarbose had more effects on ruminal fermentation when wheat was used as the substrate whereas it exhibited little effect on ruminal fermentation when beet pulp was used as the substrate.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionfeeding large amounts of rapidly fermentable diets to high- producing ruminant animals is a common strategy for increasing milk yields and maximising economic efficiency.

eanaerobes in the microbiomerumen microbial and fermentation characteristics are affected differently by acarbose addition during two nutritional types of simulated severe subacute ruminal acidosis in vitroyue wang junhua liu yuyang yin weiyun zhu shengyong maojiangsu key laboratory of gastrointestinal nutrition and animal health laboratory of gastrointestinal microbiology college of animal science and technology nanjing agricultural university nanjing 210095 jiangsu province chinaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 10 december 2016 received in revised form1 april 2017accepted 6 april 2017available online 7 april 2017 handling editor emma allen-vercoekeywordsacarbosesubacute rumen acidosis ruminal microbiota wheatbeet pulpin vitro fermentationa b s t r a c t little information is available on whether or not the effect of an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor on the prevention of ruminal acidosis is influenced by the type of diet during ruminant feeding.

thus our study intended to investigate the effect of acarbose adjunction in shifting ruminal fermentation parameters as well as ruminal bacterial composition under two different substrates wheat and beet pulp in vitro by batch cultures technology.materials and methodsanimals and their treatmentsin this experiment three rumen-cannulated holstein cows initial body weight bw 500 - 23.5 kg mean - sd were used as rumen fluid donors.

thus it is likely that acarbose could be used as a feed additive and have more effects on ruminal fermentation when wheat was used as thesubstrate.conflict of interestthe authors declare no conflict of interest.fundingthis work was supported by the national natural science foundation of china grant numbers 31372339.acknowledgementthe authors are grateful to hossam-eldin seddik for language help.appendix a. supplementary datasupplementary data related to this article can be found at .references e.e.e.e.e.

however a diet that involves a high percentage of rapidly fermentable carbohy- drates gives a rise to an incompatible upsurge in the rate of volatile fatty acids production which leads to a dramatic decrease in ruminal ph and metabolic disorders  ultimately inducing sub- acute ruminal acidosis sara.

therefore researchers continue to investigate strategies of preventing and controlling the occurrence corresponding author.e-mail address s. mao.of ruminal acidosis.previous research has reported that feeding ruminants high amounts of concentrates mainly composed of wheat corn or beet pulp can result in different types of ruminal acidosis including lactic acidosis butyric sara and propionic sara .

although previous studies have proven that acarbose plays a part in the improvements of ruminal function  it has not been determined whether or not it works on ruminal acidosis induced by different types of diet.

on theother hand the higher ruminal ph in the acarbose treatment groups may also have contributed to the alteration of ruminal microbiota as mentioned above.ruminal bacterial microbiota and fermentation characteristics beet pulp substratein line with previous researches about propionic acidosis brought out by consuming substantial beet pulp amounts in normal feeding of cattle and wethers  this study showed that in vitro severe sara was induced by the beet pulp.

the good's coverage value in our study was more than 0.99 indicating the sequencing depth was sufficient enough.when cracked wheat was used as the substrate 22 bacterial phyla were obtained a. according to the average sequence number the three most abundant phyla were firmicutes 41.58 bacteroidetes 40.21 and proteobacteria 14.66 and they composed more than 96.45 of the ruminal microbiota.

at the genus level 81 bacterial genera were detected between the control and acarbose treatment 0.4 mgml groups a. results showed that the predominant genera in the control groups were prevotella 28.76 ruminobacter 26.24 pseudobutyrivibrio 11.64 butyrivibrio 4.49 and incertaesedis 4.19. in acarbose treatment groups the dominant taxa included prevotella 17.46 oribacterium 3.12 butyrivibrio 3.52 and pseudobutyrivibrio 2.86. in comparison to the con- trol group acarbose supplementation significantly increased the relative abundance of streptococcus selenomonas treponema methanobrevibacter victivallis oribacterium candidatussacchar- imonas anaerovibrio acetitomaculum and moryella while the relative abundance of prevotella ruminobacter succinivibrio pseu- dobutyrivibrio succiniclasticum ruminococcus anaeroplasma as well as roseburi were reduced significantly p  0.05.when beet pulp was used as the substrate 22 bacterial phylawere detected in the samples b and three predominant phyla were bacteroidetes 46.94 firmicutes 24.92 and ten- ericutes 24.47. moreover the three most abundant phyla and spirochaetae composed more than 96.33 of the ruminal micro- biota.

no significant shifts p  0.05 were identified in the pro- portion of the dominant genera prevotella anaeroplasma rumino- coccus incertaesedis treponema oribacterium succiniclasticum butyrivibrio and pseudobutyrivibrio between the control and acar- bose treatment groups.diversity and structure of the ruminal microbiota compositionwhen wheat was used as the substrate rarefaction curves demonstrated that a significant effect on the diversity of rumen bacterial community was detected in the acarbose treatment groups compared to the control group a. the results showed that significant differences p  0.05 were identified in the number of observed otus the shannon index the chao 1 value and the ace value between the control and acarbose groups .

1. rarefaction curves based on otus in each sample.plots based on unweighted unifrac distance metrics showed a separation between the acarbose and control group a. moreover the outcome of the amova illustrated that the compo- sition of the ruminal microbiota changed significantly after acar- bose addition fs 93.76 p  0.001.when beet pulp was used as the substrate the results showed that the number of observed otus and the alpha diversity indices such as the shannon index chao 1 value and ace value maintained consistency between the control and acarbose groups .

pcoa plots b and amova fs 0.20 p 0.659 based on unweighted unifrac distance metrics also revealed that no signif- icant shifts p  0.05 were detected in the structure of ruminal microbiota with acarbose addition.quantitative real-time pcr analysiswhen wheat was used as the substrate the amount of 16s rrna bacterial gene copies in firmicutes together with bacteroidetes significantly decreased p  0.05 with acarbose addition .

in line with above studies severer decrease of tvfa concentration in the acarbose treatment which means poorer ruminal degradation of starch that might negatively influence the feed efficiency and rumen metabolism in practical conditions of feeding ruminants was observed in the present research with wheat used as the substrate.

this discordance in- dicates that the effect of acarbose on rumen bacterial community composition depends on the type of the fermentation substrate and it might play a positive role in modulating the ruminal microbiota when grain diet is used as substrate.methodological issues of this researchit is noteworthy that this research has some limitations.

