thus we used animal models and high-throughput sequencing method to investigate i the impact of s. boulardii on the integrity of liver tissue and hepatic function and ii the effect of s. boulardii on gut microbiota composition.the assessment of histopathological changes and aminotransferase activities demonstrated that d-galn- induced hepatic injury could be alleviated by s. boulardii intervention.

at the phylum level we found that s. boulardii significantly increased in the relative abundance of bacteroidetes and decreased the relative abundance of firmicutes and proteobacteria which may explain the hepatic protective effects of s. boulardii.

however the underlying mechanisms of such protection remain largely unclear.thus this study has the following aims i to examine the influence of s. boulardii on liver function and hepat- ocyte architecture in mouse model of d-galactosamine d-galn induced liver injury and ii to investigate the impact of s. boulardii administration on the taxonomic composition of the mouse gut microbiota by utilizing high-throughput sequencing technology.materials and methodsanimals and tissue sampling.

on the other hand the levels of alt and ast of the d-galn  sb group were substantially lower than those of the d-galn group p 0.01 for alt p 0.01 for ast suggesting marked attenuation in liver injury after s. boulardii administration.figure 1. effects of d-galn treatment and s. boulardii supplementation on alt a and ast b activities.

such differences indicated that s. boulardii supplementation indeed mitigated d-galn-induced liver injury.gut microbiota profoundly affected by s. boulardii.

however the mice under s. boulardii supplementation were less affected and displayed a relatively restored gut microbial composition after d-galn challenge.we further compared the d-galn group and the d-galn  sb group so as to scrutinize how s. boulardii sup- plementation profoundly affected the abundance of different phyla and families.

after s. boulardii administration mice exhibited alleviated necrosis of hepatocytes hemorrhage and inflammatory infiltration thereby suggesting that s. boulardii may act as a beneficial probiotic in the context of acute liver injury.

the fact that s. boulardii could reverse the above bacterial imbalances may explain the hepatic protective effects of s. boulardii.

importantly many of them remain poorly understood and could be novel bacteria to study in the context of liver injury since we should not rule out the possibility that changes in specific bacterial families are involved in the beneficial effects of s. boulardii on liver function.although s. boulardii supplementation was observed to alter gut microbial composition and alleviate d-galn-induced acute liver injury we still lack insights into the interaction between gut bacterial community and liver function.

our results demonstrated that s. boulardii administration could change the gut microbiota in mice and alleviate d-galn-induced acute liver injury indicating a potential therapeutic role of s. boulardii.

taken together our results demonstrated that s. boulardii administration could change the gut microbiota in mice and alleviate acute liver failure indicating a potential protective and therapeutic role of s. boulardii.acute liver failure alf is a rare and life-threatening disorder with extremely high short-term morbidity and mortality.

email saccharomyces boulardii s. boulardii is a selected strain of nonpathogenic yeast which is commercialized worldwide as a probiotic for humans.

fxr antagonism of nsaids contributes to drug-induced liver injury identified by systems pharmacology approach.scientific reports 5 8114 doi2015.bajaj j. s. o'leary j. g. wong f. reddy k. r.  kamath p. s. bacterial infections in end-stage liver disease current challenges and future directions.

world journal of gastroenterology 21 1691-1702 doi2015.sharma v. garg s.  aggarwal s. probiotics and liver disease.

in this study we aimed to investigate the protective effects of s. boulardii on d-galactosamine-induced liver injury in mice.

