2016. saccharin goes through the gastrointestinal gi tract un-metabolized and is absorbed slowly from the intestine but eliminated rapidly in the urine renwick 1985. it has been reported that dietary saccharin could change gut bacterial metabolism in rats by affecting the activity of several bacterial enzymes mallett rowland  bearne 1985. and saccharin consumption was discovered to be associated with altered amino acid metabolism by gut bacteria lawrie renwick  sims 1985. most recently a study found that saccharin was able to alter the mouse gut microbiota and this alteration led to increased glucose intolerence suez et al.

2014 swithers martin clark laboy  davidson 2010 however in this study no significant difference was found in body weight gain between the controls and saccharin-treated mice 10.36-1.41g and 10.30-2.33 g for the control and saccharin group respectively after saccharin consumption for 6 months at the dose equivalent to the fda approved adi in human figure s1.consistently the functional enrichment analysis of the gut microbes also displayed a huge distinction in bacterial functional repertoire between the saccharin and control group.notably we found that orthologs related to bacterial pro-inflammatory mediators were significantly increased after saccharin consumption fig.

nevertheless the change of these metabolites indicates that saccharin consumption may increase the risk of host inflammation through altering metabolites produced or regulated by the gut microbiome.conclusionsour results revealed that 6-month saccharin administration in drinking water induced elevated inflammation in mouse liver which could be functionally associated with saccharin-induced gut microbiome perturbations exemplified by the alteration of inflammation-related bacterial pathways and metabolites figure 6. elevated expression of inos and tnf-a in liver supported that saccharin consumption could increase inflammation in mice and this change may be the consequence of perturbations of the gut microbiota and metabolites arising from saccharin consumption.

2014. the impact of saccharin on the gut microbiota and its metabolic profiles leads to a new but underappreciated mechanism of the potential toxicity of saccharin which represents a significant knowledge gap in artificial sweetener toxicity research.inflammation is one of the most common physical conditions and associated with a number of human diseases such as inflammatory bowel diseases obesity diabetes atherosclerosis and cancer coussens  werb 2002 furet et al.

notably we found two key genes inducible nitric-oxide synthase inos and tumor necrosis factor alpha tnf-a were significantly p0.05 elevated in liver of saccharin-treated mice figure 1 which suggested a strong link between saccharin consumption and host inflammatory response.bian et al.page 6impact of saccharin on the dynamics of gut bacterial developmentsaccharin induced significant changes to the mouse gut microbiota manifested by the alterations of gut bacteria.

further statistical analysis was investigated using statistical analysis of metagenomic profiles stamp version 2.1.3 for results obtained from tax4fun parks tyson hugenholtz  beiko 2014.bian et al.page 5fecal metabolite analysisextraction of metabolic compounds in fecal samples collected after exposure to saccharin for six months was conducted using methanol and water as previously described lu et al.

a p-value of 0.05 or less was considered statistically significant.resultseffect of saccharin on the inflammation mediators in mouse liverto explore the effect of saccharin consumption on chronic inflammation in mice we examined the pro-inflammatory gene expression on mrna level.

given the alteration of fecal microbiota by saccharin and the fact that the gut metabolites are co- produced by gut microbes and the host we further explored the effects of saccharin on gut microbial metabolic profiles.

these results indicated that six-month saccharin consumption altered fecal metabolome.significantly changed functional metabolites by saccharinto further investigate the effects of saccharin on chronic inflammation in the host we identified significantly altered molecular features and obtained a list of changed metabolites table s2.

we have demonstrated that saccharin consumption altered the fecal microbiota and metabolome indicating a functional impact of saccharin on the gut microbiota and host.

in our study saccharin consumption significantly decreased the production of equol and increased the level of its parent compound daidzein and other metabolites o-dma and dihydrodaidzein figure 5 which not only demonstrates the impact of saccharin on the metabolic functions of the gut microbiome but also may decreases the ability of the gut microbiome to protect the host from inflammatory challenges.

thus it is noteworthy and imperative to investigate the functional link between exposure to xenobiotics and imbalanced gut microbiota.artificial sweetners are ubiquitously used food additives and the us food and drug administration fda has approved the usage of saccharin sucralose aspartame neotame acesulfame potassium and advantame to date spencer et al.

saccharin is generally considered to be safe partially because of the fact that it is barely metabolized by human body spencer et al.

2009 xavier  podolsky 2007. in previous studies saccharin was recognized to enrich the biosynthesis pathway of lipopolysaccharide lps of the mouse gut microbiota suez et al.

2009. it is of significance to probe the inflammation-inducing effects of saccharin inbian et al.page 3view of gut microbial and metabolic changes.

