b. subtilis has a recognized history of safe use so the efsa granted it qps status efsa panel on biological hazards 2010.clostridium butyricumin december 2014 the european commission authorized placing in the market c. butyricum cbm 588 as a novel food ingredient according to regulation ec no 25897 european commission 2014. the british competent authorities performed the initial assessment after miyarisan pharmaceutical co. ltd. tokyo japan requested using c. butyricum on the market as a novel food ingredient used in food supplements.

as well studies with living bacteria are needed to increase the chances of acceptance as a probiotic.admission of b. xylanisolvens as a novel food impact on other candidatesxylanisolvens is only the fourth bacterium after l. mesenteroides b. subtilis natto and c. butyricum to be approved under novel food regulation no 25897 european commission 1997b.the positive outcome of the novel food assessment is independent from the qps evaluation results.

 1  2  3  4  wolfgang kneifel 1  5 6  7 and 71 department of food sciences and technology university of natural resources and life science vienna vienna austria 2 department of food and cosmetic science tokyo university of agriculture hokkaido japan 3 instituto de productos lacteos de asturias spanish higher research council villaviciosa spain 4 instituto de lactologia industrialunl-conicet national university of the litoral santa fe argentina 5 laboratory of microbiology wageningen university and research wageningen netherlands 6 immunobiology research program research programs unit faculty of medicine university of helsinki helsinki finland 7 functional foods forum faculty of medicine university of turku turku finlandedited byrebeca martin inra centre jouy-en-josas francereviewed bygiorgio giraffa centro di ricerca per le produzioni foraggere e lattiero-casearie creaitaly victor laderoconsejo superior de investigacionescientificas csic spaincorrespondencecarlos gomez-gallegospecialty sectionthis article was submitted tofood microbiology a section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 24 june 2017accepted 24 august 2017published 12 september 2017citation brodmann t endo a gueimonde m vinderola g kneifel w de vos wm salminen s and gomez-gallego c 2017 safety of novel microbes for human consumption practical examples of assessment in theeuropean union.

this paper discusses each candidate's safety evaluation for novel food or novel food ingredient approval according to european union eu regulations.

upcoming changes in euu regulation 20152283 on novel food will facilitate the authorization of future novel products and might increase the presence of novel microbes in the food market.keywords novel microbes safety bacteroides xylanisolvens akkermansia muciniphila fructophilic lactic acid bacteria faecalibacterium prausnitziiintroductionsince ancient times microorganisms have constituted an essential part of human nutrition and been consumed through naturally microbially fermented products containing viable bacteria such as fermented honey fruits berries and their juices and fermented products of animal origin.

the european food safety authority efsa has the mandate to assess and communicate all risks associated with the food chain in the eu.

standing committees representing member states and their interests have strong influence on the work of dg sante von wright 2012. amid globalization and ongoing technical progress the number of new food products in the eu has increased significantly and food safety has become a growing concern.

the qps assessment's strong focus on the absence of acquired antibiotic resistances and virulence factors is another difference between the two concepts.microorganisms authorized as novel food in the euleuconostoc mesenteroidesin january 2001 the european commission authorized market placement of a dextran preparation produced by l. mesenteroides as a novel food ingredient in bakery products.

2015.bacillus subtilis nattoin april 2009 the european commission allowed placing vitamin k2 menaquinone produced by b. subtilis natto in the market as a novel food ingredient under regulation ec no 25897. nattopharma oslo norway requested that the irish competent authorities place b. subtilis natto derived vitamin k2 in the market as a novel food ingredient to be used in foods which served particular nutritional uses and which had added vitamins and minerals european commission 2009. in an initial report the irish competent authorities required an additional assessment so the efsa was requested to conduct an extended assessment.

c. butyricum was authorized as novel food ingredient in food supplements at a maximum dose of 1.35 x 108 cfu per day.

xylanisolvens dsm 23964 were approved as a novel food under novel food regulation no 25897. usage of this specific strain was restricted as the starter culture in the fermentation of pasteurized milk products.

this strain has no history of use in the food industry and no strain in the genus bacteroides has a proven history of use in food production.

although lactose content was missing from the analysis a comparable amount to traditional products was assumed the efsa panel considered consumption of the novel food to not be nutritionally disadvantageous.the applicant also provided toxicological information about the novel food including a study on an intraperitoneal abscess formation model in mice ulsemer et al.

due to the recent description of this microorganism it has no history of use in the food industry so it must be treated according to the novel food regulation european commission 1997b.muciniphila was discovered in 2004 during the search for new mucus-degrading bacteria in human fecal samples.

a. muciniphila was only discovered and isolated in 2004 so comprehensive research is still needed to better understand this microorganism.muciniphila was not used for human consumption to any significant degree in the eu before 15 may 1997. a food business operator interested in putting a product containing a. muciniphila in the market would have to submit an application according to the novel food regulation.

