infant weight was measured by study personnel with a digital infant scale tanita on days 33 and 61. participants received breastfeeding support at their homes by the study's internationally board certified lactation consultant ibclc prenatally and on days 3 or 4 7 and 15. on days 22 33 and 61 postnatal study personnel transported samples from participants' homes to the uc davis campus on dry ice and stored at -80 degc.infants randomized into the bils group received one daily serving of b. infantis in their homes for 21 con- secutive days starting on day 7 and continuing through day 27. during the day 7 lactation consultation visit mothers were trained by their lactation consultant to mix each b. infantis serving with 5 ml of their breastmilk in a plastic medicine cup and to syringe or finger- feed the mixture to their infants.

the calculated values were multiplied by 100 to generate percentages.for this phase i study the sample size was based on differences in infant fecal b. infantis which was calcu- lated using the means and standard deviations from a previous study on breastfed infants  to detect a standardized inter-group difference of 1.3 z-scores in infant fecal b. infantis with 90 power and a  0.05 as- suming equal standard deviations with a 20 attrition rate 30 infants were needed in each group.

4uc davis mind institute university of california davis ca usa.5department of pediatrics uc davis children's hospital sacramento causa.received 14 november 2016 accepted 17 may 2017abbreviationsanova analysis of variance b. infantis bifidobacterium longum subspeciesinfantis bils lactation support plus b. infantis supplementationgi gastrointestinal hmo human milk oligosaccharides ibclc internationally board certified lactation consultant imprint infant microbiota probiotic intake study irb institutional review board ls lactation support alonepcr polymerase chain reaction uc university of californiaacknowledgementswe thank the mothers and their infants enrolled in this study for collecting information and samples with methodological detail and for complying with the study procedures during a stressful time in their busy lives.

infantis evc001 using the same extraction protocol as used for the stool samples for quanti- fication of fecal bifidobacterium.infant gastrointestinal health and tolerabilityinfant gi tolerability during b. infantis evc001 supple- mentation was assessed by mothers on a daily basis starting with day 1 or retrospectively if mothers were enrolled on day 4 postnatal until day 61. on each day mothers recorded the following information about their infants in daily logs consumption of breast milk defined as suckling at the breast for at least five minutes or con- suming any volume in a bottle intake of other liquids orsolids amount of infant formula consumed intake of probiotics that were not used in the study intake of any oral antibiotics or administration of intravenous antibi- otics intake of any over-the-counter or prescribed medi- cations intake of vitamins supplements and herbs number of spit-ups--less than five five to ten or more than ten number of stools consistency of stools using a modified amsterdam infant stool scale--watery soft formed hard  additional file blood in the stool body temperature above 100.3 degf ratings of gi-related symptoms using a continuous scale of 0 not notice- able to 10 most severe including general irritability how irritable was your baby upset if your baby vomited or spit up how upset was heshe after and discomfort rate your baby's discomfort in passing stool or gas.

lastly balancing the number of primiparous and multiparous women would have better controlled confounding effects of assessing infant symptoms.conclusionsin this study of normal healthy term infants supple- mentation of b. infantis evc001 for 21 consecutive daysin maternal breast milk was well-tolerated and increased total infant fecal bifidobacterium.

additional outcome measures related to infant fecal microbial composition were prespecifiedin the study protocol and will be reported elsewhere.methodsstudy populationbetween january 2015 and april 2016 healthy women who were pregnant or who had recently delivered healthy term infants and lived within yolo and sacramento coun- ties in california were recruited and subsequently pro- vided written informed consent to enroll in the study.

on day 7 infants were screened for the consumption of infant formula within the past 24 h. on days 3 or 4 7 15 22 33 and 61 study personnel visited mothers' homes to conduct study proce- dures.

mothers withdrew from study participation for feeling over- whelmed with a new infant andor unexpectedly discon- tinuing breastfeeding due to difficulty with lactation n  8. sixty-eight mother-infant dyads met final study criteria.

the mean log10 change in total fecal bifi- dobacterium from day 6 to day 28 was significantly p  0.0002 higher for infants in the bils grouptable 2 infant tolerabilitytolerability assessmentbils n  34ls n  33baselineinterventionpost-interventionbaselineinterventionpost-interventionaproportions were calculated as number of days reportedtotal number of days in each study periodbpercentages were calculated as number of infants for which condition appeared or was diagnosed total number of infants in each intervention group during each study period1006.6 - 2.8 sd compared with infants in the ls group 3.5 - 3.5 sd.

all adverse events reported by mothers enrolled in the study were typical of infants this age and the incidences were not increased by the b. infantis feedings.to assess infant gi function as a metric of tolerability mothers recorded the number of bowel movements and the consistency of the first bowel movement produced by their infants each day during the two-month study period.

we thank our excellent support staff and collaborators michaela carrick visiting scholar from the university of dublin who conducted data acquisition and its quality control deborah albert phd bsn ibclc for rigorously recruiting and supporting the study heather conway ibclc marie-celine farver rn bsn ibclc rlc shirley german ibclc and lonna hampton ma pa ibclc the study's lactation consultants who provided the study's participants with the support and guidance to accomplish their breastfeeding goals and peter trovitch pharmd senior pharmacist and his team at investigational drug services pharmacy atreferencessmilowitz jt lebrilla cb mills da german jb freeman sl.

the product was stored in the freezer at -20 degc and suffered no loss from the first infant enrolled to the last infant enrolled.

the number of days number of infants who were mixed-fed consumed some amount of infant formula or the mean amount of infant formula consumed were not sig- nificantly different between the bils and ls groups additional file table s3.

additionally infant intake of vitamin d significantly p  0.01 increased over time for both bils and ls groups in primiparous p  0.0005 but not multiparous mothers.infant gastrointestinal health and tolerabilitythe number of infant bowel movements during the baseline period was the same for the bils and ls groupsillnesses and reasons for any sick doctor visits reported by mothers are shown in additional file table s4.

there were no differences in infant flatulence between groups additional file  figure s4.fecal bifidobacteriumto correlate safety endpoints with the supplementation of b. infantis evc001 and colonization of the genus bifi- dobacterium in the infant gut we compared the mean differences for total fecal bifidobacterium from baseline to the end of the supplementation period for the ls and bils groups.

