ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGYSalivary Gluten Degradation and Oral Microbial Profiles in Healthy Individuals and Celiac Disease PatientsNa Tiana Lina Fallerb Daniel A. Lefflerc Ciaran P. Kellyc Joshua Hansenc Jos A. Boschde Guoxian Weia Bruce J. Pasterbf Detlef SchuppancgEva J. HelmerhorstaDepartment of Molecular and Cell Biology Boston University Henry M. Goldman School of Dental Medicine Boston Massachusetts USAa The Forsyth Institute Department of Microbiology Cambridge Massachusetts USAb Celiac Center Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Harvard Medical School Boston Massachusetts USAc Department of Clinical Psychology University of Amsterdam Amsterdam The Netherlandsd Department of Medical Psychology Academic Medical Center Amsterdam The Netherlandse Department of Oral Medicine Infection and Immunity Harvard School of Dental Medicine Boston Massachusetts USAf Institute of Translational Immunology and Research Center for Immunotherapy FZI University Medical Center Mainz GermanygABSTRACT Celiac disease CD is a chronic immune-mediated enteropathy induced by dietary gluten in genetically predisposed individuals.

The 33-mer peak heights as a function of incubation time forFIG 2 Half-life t12 values of Z-YPQ-pNA hydrolysis in whole saliva A normalized for total salivary protein concentration B and total salivary bacterial load C. The values were determined from plots shown in .

The aim of this study was to in- vestigate salivary enzymatic activities and oral microbial profiles in healthy subjects versus patients with classical and refractory CD.

The oral microbiome was profiled by 16S rRNA-based MiSeq analysis.

The oral microbiomes of CD and RCD patients showed significant differences from that of healthy subjects e.g.

The potentially responsible microbes were identified.

The study included refractory CD patients who have been studied less with regard to CD pathogenesis.KEYWORDS 16S rRNA celiac disease enzyme microbiome salivaMarch 2017 Volume 83 Issue 6 e03330-16Applied and Environmental Microbiology 1eliac disease CD is a T-cell-mediated inflammatory enteropathy characterized by villous atrophy and crypt hyperplasia resulting from duodenal inflammation.

The environmental trigger of CD is ingested gluten a heterogeneous mixture of glutamine- and proline-rich proteins from wheat rye and barley.

The oral cavity is part of and in direct connection with the entire gastro- intestinal tract.

The estimated numbers of bacteria in dental plaque and saliva are 1011 per gram of dental plaque and 108 per ml of saliva  making the oral cavity the second most densely colonized part of the human digestive tract after the colon.

