the novel host-microbiome model provides an ideal tool for future investigations of gingiva responses to commensal and pathogenic biofilms and for testing novel therapeutics.keywords host-pathogen interactions oral mucosa immune evasion gingivitis bacteria keratinocytesintroductionthe oral microbiome differs in composition among individuals and can contain hundreds of bacterial species zaura et al.

2009. in most cases the oral microbiome does not cause clini- cal problems and can therefore be considered commensal zaura et al.

2009. in contrast pathogenic oral microbiomes have a detrimental effect on the host tissue which causes dis-vivo situation the host-microbiome interaction should there- fore be investigated with multispecies microbiomes klug et al.

2016. this has also been argued by others and is reflected in multiple publications that investigate the host-microbiome interaction with biofilms composed of up to 11 species guggenheim et al.

2009 peyyala et al.

2011 belibasakis et al.

2013 bao et al.

2015 bostanci et al.

2015. previously weeases such as gingivitis or caries peyyala and ebersole 2013. to reduce pathogen invasion host tissue reciprocally interacts with the bacteria by initiating an immune response and secret- ing antimicrobial peptides mans et al.

2009 ji et al.

such models can be a powerful screening tool for antimicrobials and hold great potential for drug valida- tion and discovery nickerson et al.

2007. in this in vitro study we investigated the oral host-microbiome interaction using multispecies commensal and pathogenic oral biofilms with an organotypic gingiva model consisting of reconstructed human gingiva epithelium on a fibroblast populated lamina propria collagen hydrogel.the complexity of the oral microbiome has been found to have clear effects on the host cell response mans et al.

gibbs department of oral cell biology academic centre for dentistry amsterdam acta university of amsterdam and vrije universiteit amsterdam gustav mahlerlaan 3004 amsterdam 1081la the netherlands.email described the in vitro culture of physiologically relevant com- plex biofilms derived from the whole salivary microbiome janus et al.

2015. these biofilms were cultured from human saliva to phenotypically mimic commensal gingivitis or car- iogenic biofilms janus et al.

in contrast gingivitis biofilms had increased proteolytic activity typical for a gingi- vitis biofilm that is capable of invading the oral mucosa bao et al.

