these initial reports showed not only that the virus was as readily detectable in saliva compared to more traditional assays using urine but also that saliva had a higher sensitivity for cmv detection compared to blood .

saliva an emerging biofluid for early detection of diseases.am j dent 2009 22241-8.segal a wong dt.

eur j clin microbiol infect dis 2008 27461-5. doarora g sheikh s pallagatti s singh b singh va singh r. saliva as a tool in the detection of hepatitis b surface antigen in patients.

talanta 2003 99791-8. docampora p bermejo am tabernero mj fernandez p. quantitation of cocaine and its major metabolites in human saliva using gas chromatogra- phy-positive chemical ionization-mass spectrometry gc-pci-ms. j anal toxicol 2003 27270-4. dofisher ds patridge sj handley sa couchman l morgan pe flanagan rj.

am j emerg med 2016 34871-6. dowang h hu j chen l. decreased serum mir-503 level in children with nephrotic syndrome.

acta paediatr scand 1974 63389-92. doyang z-m chen l-h zhang m lin j zhang j chen ww et al.

biosens bioelectron 2016 81181-97. dohu s wang j meijer j ieong s xie y yu t et al.

am j respir crit care med 2010 181 1049-60. dohirtz c chevalier f sommerer n raingeard i bringer j rossignol m et al.

public health 583.doi in the last decade technological advances combined with an improved appreciation of the ability of saliva to inform caregivers about both oral health and systemic disease have led to the emergence of salivary diagnostic platforms.

gaining access into development infection and disease through comprehensive omic analyses of saliva could significantly improve care and enhance health access.

only then can salivary diagnostics truly translate into pediatric care.keywords saliva diagnostics pediatrics newborns geneticsintroductionserum biomarkers have long been the gold standard for diagnostic testing -.

defining the clinical significance of individual variations in biomarker levels determining thresh- olds that clearly discriminate between health and disease and understanding the impact of age diet and development on the composition of saliva present hurdles to implementation.

nevertheless awealth of information can be gained from a mere drop of human saliva.

from predicting physiological development and biological functions to microbial and metabolic analyses saliva is provid- ing pediatric caregivers and researchers with an exciting new tool for exploration  -.in this review we will highlight novel applications of salivary analyses across the omic spectrum including at the genomic transcriptomic proteomic metabolomic and microbiomic level.

the important impact of age and development on saliva components will be reviewed and specific attention will be given to emerging platforms for use in both neonatal and pediatric populations.

