ldd7 low-dose infected day 7 ldd14 low-dose infected day 14 hdd7 high-dose infected day 7 hdd14 high-dose infected day 14. number represent the relative percentage of each phyla that had abundances greater than 7.6.doi10.1371journal.pone.0172856.g002shows that despite inter-individual variability within the control group a common finding in teleost skin microbial communities   sav3-infected samples clustered closer to each other and that the distances between control and infected groups were greater at day 7   than at day 14 .both infection dose and time after infection determine the composition of the skin microbial communityanosim statistical analyses revealed that infection treatment control low-dose high-dose p value  0.047 as well as time after infection day 7 and day 14 p value  0.04 were signifi- cant factors determining the composition of the salmon skin microbial community.sav-induced skin dysbiosis is characterized by loss of beneficial bacteriawe next determined whether sav infection resulted in the absence of protective or physiologi- cally important bacteria.

the salmon skin microbial community was determined using 16s rdna pyrosequencing in five different experimental groups control 7 days after infection with low- dose sav 14 days after infection with low-dose sav 7 days after infection with high-dose sav and 14 days after infection with high-dose sav.

in the low- dose infected groups an increase in bacteroidetes abundance was observed on day 7 but not on day 14. fusobacteria abundance also increased as a result of infection from  20 inchanges in the alpha diversity of the atlantic salmon skin microbial community in response to sav3 infection.

to the control group and .sav-induced skin dysbiosis is characterized by expansion of potentially pathogenic taxaamong the 18 otus with abundances that were significantly different among experimental groups we found significantly increased abundances of members of the families vibrionaceaethree-dimensional principal coordinate analysis obtained with bray curtis distances a and b or weighted unifrac distance matrix c and d of the salmon skin bacterial communities from day 7 infection a and c and day 14 infection b and d. each dot represents one individual fish.

future studies should address whether viral load in the skin correlates with the state of skin dysbiosis reported in this study and whether skin immune responses against the virus correlate with the observed changes in the skin microbiome of infected fish.we found that both sav3 infection dose and time of infection are strong predictors of the skin salmon microbiota.

since our observations show a higher presence of tenacibaculum in sav infected fish in a dose-dependent fashion this link deserves to be fur- ther investigated for a better understanding of the dynamics of disease outbreaks in salmon farms.conclusionssav3 infection results in skin dysbiosis in atlantic salmon characterized most prominently by the loss of proteobacteria.

both infection treatment and time after infection were strong predictors of the skin microbial community composition.

environmental factors known to influence teleost microbiomes include diet stress water quality toxicants and infection     .during the course of an infection the relationships between the microbiota and the host immune system are vulnerable to changes.

research articlesalmonid alphavirus infection causes skin dysbiosis in atlantic salmon salmo salar l. post-smoltskristin m. reid1 sonal patel2 aaron j. robinson1 lijing bu1 jiraporn jarungsriapisit2 lindsey j. moore2 irene salinas1department of biology university of new mexico albuquerque new mexico united states of americainstitute of marine research bergen norway abstractopen accesscitation reid km patel s robinson aj bu l jarungsriapisit j moore lj et al.

2017 salmonid alphavirus infection causes skin dysbiosis in atlantic salmon salmo salar l. post-smolts.

the goal of the present study is to assess the changes in the skin microbial commu- nity of atlantic salmon salmo salar l. in response to experimental infection with salmonid alphavirus sav.

hiv-infected humans show a state of dysbiosis in their gut microbiota  and influenza- virus infection alters the intestinal microbial community of mice .atlantic salmon salmo salar l. is one of the most important commercial aquaculture fish species.

impact of infection on haematopoetic tissue has also been reported .importantly infected salmon shed viral particles via their feces and skin mucus  .

the mean number of post-filter reads per sample was 199788 - 197425 and the amplicon size was 301 bp.sav infection results in changes in the alpha-diversity of salmon skin microbial communitythe total number of different otus detected in the low-dose infected experimental groups day 7 and day 14 was lower than in control group skin samples  .

ldd7 low-dose infected day 7 ldd14 low-dose infected day 14 hdd7 high-dose infected day 7 hdd14 high-dose infected day 14.doi10.1371journal.pone.0172856.g004sav3 infection results in losses of beneficial bacteria in atlantic salmon skin.

