the quality of bacterial genome assemblies can be assessed by looking for the presence of a standardized set of marker genes 51. the pools of contigs generated for each cc were therefore screened using the checkm pipeline for these markers 49. most assemblies had a marker gene content typical of what is expected from a single bacterial genome although some of the largest communities contained multiple copies of marker genes suggesting that they contained more than one genome see below.the contigs from each of the 121 ccs were then scaffolded using the program graal fig.

2 e vi and f.annotation and analysis of prophages in bacterial genomes the annotation of the large scaffolds using the phaster pipeline 56 also pointed at the presence of putative prophage sequences integrated within bacterial genome scaffolds fig.

an internal control for the net- work segmentation step was implemented by introducing meta3c reads of a chosen mix of three bacterial species materials and methods and fig.

the control contigs containing three bacterial spe- cies were segmented into three well-defined ccs black triangles in fig.

finally secondary features that are specific to bacterial chromosome metabolism are also sometimes visible notably a secondary diagonal fig.

a single bacterial scaffold belonging to the clostridiales phylum core7 scaffold1 presented enriched contacts with this long contig fig.

notably we identified a contig core151 contig0 harboring typical markers from the caudovirales family and exhibiting several enriched contacts with reconstructed bacterial genomes fig.

in parallel we searched for crispr spacers found in the different bacterial scaffolds that would present a match on the candidate phage contigs fig.

with only one exception none of the bacterial scaffolds detected by this analysis displayed enriched contacts with the phage contigs fig.

however this task is currently limited by i the ability to characterize complete bacterial and viral genomes from a complex mix of species and ii the difficulty to assign phage sequences to their bacterial hosts.

for instance bacteria-phage relationships remain poorly characterized despite the impact of phages on the balance of microbial communities 22 23. the presence of phages which are considered the most abundant and diverse biological entities on earth 24 in these eco- systems has far-reaching consequences beyond particular pairwise in- teractions 25 influencing everything from bacterial virulence 26 to cell physiology 27. however the characterization of a phage genome from sequencing data is usually not sufficient to identify its bacterial hosts.

pink triangles point at the circularization signal in the map consistent with a bacterial circular chromosome.schematic representation of the typical primary and secondary features found on a bacterial contact map left alongside a diagram of the corresponding chromosome organization right.

the read coverage of the bacterial scaffolds and the normalized contact frequencies between the phage contigs and the bacterial scaffolds are plotted under the maps black and blue graphs respectively.

this result suggests that this phage genome has fre- quent contacts with the genome of this bacterial species hence this bacterial species hosts the phage.

these results show that dna collisions allow the tracking of mobile genetic elements of interest within complex microbial popula- tions opening the way to high-resolution monitoring of horizontal transfer events within populations and dynamic studies of microbiota genomic structure.results and discussionapplying meta3c to a mice gut microbiotato investigate the genomic structure of the mouse gut microbiome a single feces sample from a healthy control male mouse c57bl6 from the institut pasteur animal facility was collected split and processed through two meta3c protocols that solely differed by the restriction en- zyme being used either hpa ii c'cgg or mlu ci 'aatt fig.

