similar trends have been proposed as indicators of a wide range of disturbances in tropical corals including nutrient enrichment and temperature increases however the winter populations of a. poculata sampled in this study did not exhibit signs of disease and a. poculata has been documented to survive quiescence during extended periods of extreme low winter tempera- tures thus the a. poculata wintertime microbiome likely does not reflect a disease state but potentially a general dysbiosis due to meta-organism quiescence or lack of host metabolic activity that serves to regulate microbiome structure as described in it is there- fore feasible that what has been observed as disease- associated microbiome signatures i.e.

for example chao1 richness estimates in colonies of the great barrier reef coral pachyseris speciosa range from 700 to 1500 otus in contrast the average chao1 estimate in the a. poculata microbiomes was 471- 118 ranging from 213 to 692. notably alpha diversity of cold deep- water corals has been shown to be even lower furthermore within each seasonal time point overall microbiome composition in a. poculata was remarkablyuniform between samples a pattern that also differs from that of tropical scleractinian coral microbiomes it is possible that emergence from quiescence may catalyze an annual re-organization of the a. poculata microbiome each spring.

this transition appears to homogenize microbiome structure across individuals potentially reflecting a conserved functional response of the microbiome to an increase in holobiont metabolic rates and is consistent with the recent obser- vation of periodic microbiome succession in the tropical coral porites astreoides in response to cyclical mucus shedding microbiome membersthe seasonal shifts in a. poculata microbiome compos- ition primarily involved changes in the relative abun- dance of common bacterial classes.

microbiome 2017 5120doi 10.1186s40168-017-0329-8season but not symbiont state drives microbiome structure in the temperate coral astrangia poculatakoty h. sharp1 zoe a. pratte2 allison h. kerwin3 randi d. rotjan 45 and frank j. stewart2backgroundcorals are the foundation of tropical reef ecosystems worldwide and are increasingly known to harbor preva- lent and ecologically important microbial communities reviewed in the now classic two-partner symbiosis between the coral host and intracellular photosynthetic symbiont symbiodinium has been updated to include the microbiome with corals now regarded as meta- organisms metazoan hosts with diverse bacterial archaeal fungal protistan and viral partners muchof the coral microbiome research over the past two decades has focused on prokaryotic communities and has consistently demonstrated that prokaryotes in tropical corals play a critical role in nutrient acquisition and waste processing and host resistance to pathogens and are therefore largely beneficial to corals and coral reefs most corals appear to acquire their specific bacterial component from seawater during early life stages although intergenera- tional transmission may also occur yet coral- associated microbiomes are distinct from those in the correspondence 1department of biology marine biology and environmental science roger williams university 1 old ferry road bristol ri 02809 usafull list of author information is available at the end of the articlesurrounding seawater and sediment - and the mechanisms that regulate the composition of the coral microbiome remain largely unknown.

in the species' northernmost range southern new england seawater temperature fluctuates over a range exceeding 20 degc with average temperatures from 4 to 29 degc across seasons noaa tides  currents newport ri site 8452660. as a consequence a. poculata metabolic rates vary seasonally with the coral entering into quiescencedormancy during winter months   with reduced symbiosis during this quiescent period studies of a. poculata in its natural environment across seasons therefore allow testing of the influence of symbiosis and seasonality on other aspects of the meta-organism.here we present the first description of prokaryotic diversity in the coral a. poculata sampled over seasons from a location in narragansett bay rhode island near the northernmost limit of the species range.

together these patterns indicate a relative uniformity of coral microbiomes during spring and that a shift in coral microbiome composition during this period contributed substantially to the overall seasonal variation.influence of symbiotic state on a. poculata microbiome compositionin contrast to results based on season and to our expec- tations two-way anova analysis of four indices of alpha diversity did not demonstrate a strong influence of symbiont state brown or white on a. poculata micro- biomes fig.

of approximately 28000 unique otus recovered from a. poculata samples 97 were present in  90 of samples see additional file  while only 25 otus were present across all a. poculata samples.microbiome taxa differing in relative abundance by season the seasonal shifts in the composition of a. poculata and seawater microbiomes involved changes in the rela- tive abundance of specific taxa.

a. pocu- lata engages in facultative symbiosis with only one species of symbiont symbiodinium psygmophilum its2 type b2  sympatric a. poculata individuals can exhibit wide variation in s. psygmophilum density as a temperate species a. poculata also experiences a wide range of temperatures throughout the year.

-h for all anosim r  0.01 p  0.3 permanova f  1.06p  0.34. when season was removed from the analysis no dissimilarity was found between all brown and all white a. poculata individuals anosim r  - 0.014 p  0.844 permanova f  0.83 p  0.746.dominant microbiome taxaotus from this a. poculata specimen collection span- ning the four seasonal time points and regardless of symbiotic state consistently were dominated by six mainclasses or phyla of prokaryotes the g-proteobacteria a-proteobacteria d-proteobacteria flavobacteriia cytophagia and thaumarchaea fig.

how- ever this group has also been detected widely in putatively healthy tropical corals 9. the a. poculata microbiome exhibited significant relative increases in members of the bacteroidales clostri- diales and synechococcus from spring to summer time points whereas the relative abundance ofrhodobacteraceae rickettsiaceae and verrucomi- crobiaceae decreased significantly in the summer see additional file discussionthis study sampled a temperate naturally facultative symbiotic coral astrangia poculata across seasons to test whether symbiotic state density of the symbiont symbiodinium psygmophilum in the coral tissue structures the coral-associated microbiome.

experiments involving the facultatively symbiotic anemone aiptasia recently revealed significant differences in microbiome com- position between symbiotic versus aposymbiotic indi- viduals reared in the laboratory  in tropical and subtropical anemones and corals symbiodinium activ- ity levels have been suggested as a driver of coral microbiome composition and the release of excess symbiodinium photosynthate is thought to regulate microbiome composition in the mucus layer 4. in a. poculata it is unknown if excess photosynthate is released to the mucus layer.

central recovery rather than perimeter recovery was the dominant mode of polyp regeneration in a. poculata demon- strating relatively high-energy reserves on a per-polyp basis  it is also possible that symbiodinium psygmophilum photosynthesis in a. poculata does not constitute a major supply of organic matter for either the microbiome or the host even during the warmest summer months.

we hypothesized that1 microbiome composition would vary significantly across seasons and 2 within seasons especially within summer symbiotic state would be a significant driver of microbiome composition.methodscoral and seawater specimen collectionwhole colonies of symbiotic brown and aposymbiotic white a. poculata were collected via scuba at fort wetherill state park jamestown ri 41deg 28' 40'' n 71deg 21' 34'' w in fall september 9 2015 winter march 5 2016 spring april 29 2016 and summer july 19 2016. to minimize the potential of hyper-localized environmental effects due to benthic composition benthic orientation or abiotic factors we sampled colony pairs in which a brown colony occurred within10 cm of a white colony.

adjacent a. poculata colonies dis- played different symbiotic states even at the same depth within a site additional file .astrangia poculata and seawater microbiome sequence statisticssmall subunit ribosomal rna 16s rrna gene ampli- cons from a total of 110 coral and seawater specimens were sequenced summarized in table at each seasonal time point whole coral colony material skeleton tissue and mucus together was collected from both brown and white colonies and seawater samples were collected.

given the high reliance of a. poculata on particle ingestion microbiome members may respond to changes in host heterotrophic intake and waste nutrient availability rather than differential levels of symbiodinium growth rate density or pigmentation.given the similarity of symbiotic versus aposymbioticpoculata microbiomes and the lack of similarity between coral and seawater microbiome composition at each time point fig.

