thus these results suggest that the baf is effec- tive for nhth4 -n removal even under low temperature and suitable as a pretreatment unit for reducing ammonia load for the follow-up process in dwtps.long-term removal of no-2 -ncomparing to the high while stable removal efficiency of nhth4 -n the removal efficiency of no-2 -n changed dramatically with sea- sonal water temperature variation .

concerning the nhth4 -n removal efficiency of 77.52 at 5 oc we speculated that it was psychrophilic aob that contributed to the performance of nhth4 -n removal in winter.microorganisms are classified into psychrophilic bacteria with cardinal temperature less than 15 oc upper limit of 20 oc   mesophilic bacteria with optimal growth temperature be- tween 20 and 40 oc and psychrotolerant bacteria that can overlap any adjacent thermal groups.

we respectively observed 92.62 of nhth4 -n removal effi- ciency 97.88 of no2--n removal efficiency in summer and 77.52 nhth4 -n removal efficiency in winter down to 5 oc.

therefore band 6 the mesophilic psychrotolerant nob dominated in summer seems to be responsible not only for the excellent no-2 -n removal efficiency of 97.88 in phase ii but alsofor the decline of no-2 -n removal efficiency in autumn and the increase in spring as well as the nitrite accumulation in winter and the next early spring.

therefore it is the psychrophilic aob of band 1 that contributed to the 77.52 nhth4 -n removal efficiency in winter despite its intensity is less than that of the other two aob bands which might also retain some limited ammonia oxidation activity under low temperature.band 6 and 11 belonging to nitrospira are detected in both sampling temperatures and suggested to be psychrotolerant nob.

nhth4 -n no-2 -n and no-3 -n were determined by the colorimetric methods using a spectrometer dr 5000 hach usa.

the dynamic change both of water temperature solid line and nhth4 -n a no-2 -n b no-3 -n d and do c were plotted.

these results suggested a low temperature- induced increase of nhth4 -n removal efficiency in the baf.the influent concentration of nhth4 -n varied from 1.93 to 2.9 mg l  and the higher level appeared in autumn winter and early spring of which the water temperature was less than 20 oc.

the psychrophilic aob belonging to nitrosomonas likely contribute to the recovered nhth4 -n removal efficiency when temperature is below 7 oc.

the nhth4 -n removal efficiency in phase ii of 92.62 suggested that band 2 the dominant aob in summer might be mesophilic psychroto- lerant bacterium.

the removal effi- ciencies shown in also exhibited the differential of the baf performance in different seasons.long-term removal of nhth4 -nthe removal efficiency of nhth4 -n was stable over the testing period despite the influent values fluctuated frequently e. the average removal efficiency of nhth4-n was 83.11 in the whole year .

consistent with rowan's studies which reveal nitrosomonas to be the predominant aob of baf bacterial community  we found that three aob belonged to nitrosomonas of which one aob affil- iated to nitrosomonas oligotropha and the other affiliated to nitro- somonas communis.

according to these definitions 92.62 of the removal efficiency in the phase ii where the temperature is over 20 oc  seemed to be due to mesophilic or mesophilic psychrotolerant aob while 77.52 and 81.52 of the removal ef- ficiency under low temperature below 10 oc in the phase iv and v respectively seemed to be assigned to the activity of psychrophilic aob.

the higher level of influent nhth4 -n appeared in winter while that of no-2 -n appeared in summer.

for the efflu- ents both of nhth4 -n and no-2 -n were at low level in summer phaseii and high level in winter phase iv.

