documents our current knowledge on gut microbiota composition at the extreme end of human life namely in centenarians providing relevant findings on the role of gut microbiota in neurodegenerative diseases such as parkinson's and alzheimer's diseases.finally comparative analysis of gut commensals found in two different mammalian species humans and mice revealed that they had a relatively small number of microor- ganisms in common hugenholtz and de vos and reminds us that extreme caution should be taken when findings from murine analyses are being extrapolated to humans.author contributions 1 early microbiota antibiotics and health.

these interactions have various implications in terms of health and disease and this multi-author review issue will address a number of selected aspects pertaining to gut microbiota research.keywords microbiota  microbiome  probiotic  gut commensals  diet  healthhuman beings are colonized by complex microbial com- munities that influence and govern various biological pro- cesses during their entire lifespan.

the human gut microbiota in the early stages of life plays a pivotal role in the maturation and modulation ofthe host immune system as well as in promoting various physiological processes in the human gut such as the estab- lishment of mucosal integrity and the mucus gel layer  .furthermore later in life the abundance and prevalence of particular members of the human gut microbiota con- tinue to play a variety of roles in the maintenance of human health for example by i assisting in the breakdown of food components and liberation of nutrients that would otherwise be inaccessible to the host ii promoting the differentia- tion of particular host tissues iii reducing the risk of gut colonization by pathogens and iv as already mentioned above maturation and modulation of the immune system.

ventura et al.this multi-author review will cover a variety of topics including the development of the gut microbiota following birth and the impact of antibiotics either prenatally or post- natally on these early microbial communities see nogacka et al.. in the context of early life microbiota one particular group of gut commensals the bifidobacteria represents a dominant and prevalent microbial group.

2018 7581-82 httpsdoi.org10.1007s00018-017-2669-8cellular and molecular life sciencesselected aspects of the human gut microbiotamarco ventura1  paul w. o'toole2  willem m. de vos34  douwe van sinderen25received 25 september 2017  accepted 29 september 2017  published online 6 october 2017c springer international publishing ag 2017abstract the gut microbiota represents a highly complex assembly of microbes which interact with each other and with their host.

within the human body microbes reach their highest density in the intestinal tract where they form a complex microbial community known as the gut microbiota .

this gut microbiota develops during infancy of the host to reach its mature form following wean- ing -.

numerous factors are known to cause shifts in the composition of the microbiota thereby disrupting this microbial homeostasis and causing a state of dysbiosis.

dys- biosis is typically associated with having a negative impact on host health with long-term consequences being asso- ciated with various disorders or diseases such as obesity douwe van sinderen 1 laboratory of probiogenomics department of chemistry life sciences and environmental sustainability microbiome research hub university of parma parma italy2 school of microbiology apc microbiome institute university college cork cork ireland3 laboratory of microbiology wageningen university 6708 pb wageningen the netherlands4 department of bacteriology and immunology university of helsinki 00100 helsinki finland5 school of microbiology national university of ireland western road cork irelanddiabetes inflammatory bowel disease ibd and metabolic syndrome.however despite the wealth of publications that support the key roles played by gut microbiota in host health main- tenance and promotion there are still substantial knowledge gaps related to the associated mechanisms of action.

provides an overview of the ecological and biological role of bifidobacteria in the infant gut.the multi-author review is counter-balanced by three arti- cles focusing on gut microbiota composition in aging organ- isms from flies to humans.

in addition in this context the contribution by o'toole and jefferey provides insights into the composition of the gut microbiota of elderly with par- ticular emphasis on the role of microbial effector metabolites in host-signaling and impact on host health status.

2 role of gut microbiota in aging-related health decline insights from invertebrate models.

5 gut microbiota changes in the extreme decades of human life a focus on centenarians.

aurelia santoro rita ostan marco candela elena biagi patrizia brigidi miriam capri and claudio franceschi.6 mouse models for human intestinal microbiota research a critical evaluation.

486222-227macpherson aj de aguero mg ganal-vonarburg sc 2017 how nutrition and the maternal microbiota shape the neonatal immune system.

