within each wine the natural must fermentations performed with commercial s. cerevisiae strains contained higher levels of glycerol and acetic acid than fermentations performed with autochthonous strains however when synthetic must was used the highest values were exhibitedtable 2  percentages of the inoculated s. cerevisiae strains recovered at the end of different fermentations.b-ca641224by the mixed fermentation .volatile compound production in industrial fermentationsthe volatile profiles of the six final wines were evaluated supplementary table s2.

in natural must fermentations inoculated with non-saccharomyces yeast  showed some species diversity at the beginning of the fermentation compared with pure s. cerevisiae fermentations  although the most abundant yeast in all cases was h. uvarum with proportions of approximately 86 and 95 in the gr and ca varieties respectively.among non-saccharomyces species this yeast dominated throughout fermentation with just one non-inoculated species h. guilliermondii detected in small percentages at mid-fermentation in the case of gr wines.the yeast dynamics for natural must fermentations were also analyzed by culture-independent techniques specifically by qpcr .

a mixed fermentation four species of non-saccharomyces and the three strains of saccharomyces b fermentation performed using the three native strains of saccharomyces.

however ethyl and isoamyla mixed fermentation four species of non-saccharomyces and the three strains of saccharomyces b fermentation performed using the three native strains of saccharomyces.

the a fermentations a-sm in synthetic must a-gr in grenache must and a-ca in carignan must contained a combination of the seven native strains which were sequentially inoculated.

however in synthetic must the decreased appears shortly after s. cerevisiae inoculation whereas in natural musts these decreases were later.mixed fermentation in synthetic must revealed the maximum yeast diversity on ypd plates at mid fermentation.

when the commercial yeast strains were used  the pattern was also very similar to the inoculation of the three s. cerevisiae strains.the fermentation kinetics observed by density monitoring showed that the fermentations finished within 8 days when a mixture of saccharomyces and non-saccharomyces are present independently of the origin natural or synthetic of the must.

during theinitial sampling points a high presence of h. uvarum was detected however these non-saccharomyces yeast species were not identified at the last sampling point in which all of the colonies were identified as s. cerevisiae.when the three selected s. cerevisiae strains were used  the non-saccharomyces populations had a similar pattern with grenache must samples reaching slightly lower populations.

the defense of the wine typicality should actually include a combination of non-saccharomyces and s. cerevisiae strains with the aim to obtain wines exhibiting complexity but avoiding the risks related to natural fermentations           .thus the proper design of an autochthonous starter culture is essential to reproduce the local sensory properties including the incorporation of a mixture of different non-saccharomyces species and different strains of s. cerevisiae to mimic spontaneous alcoholic fermentations.

natural must was the best medium to grow the saccharomyces yeast because the recovery on ypd plates was more than 60 at mid fermentation while in synthetic must the presence of saccharomyces was reduced to 5. however s. cerevisiae was the only isolated at the end of all fermentations.

additionally three strains of s. cerevisiae were sequentially inoculated after 24 h. when the three s. cerevisiae native strains were inoculated  according to the type of must used a similar pattern was observed.

this result indicates that the three native s. cerevisiae strains included in the yeast consortium coexisted throughout the alcoholic fermentation and dominated the process being in all types of fermentations synthetic grenache and carignan a clear predominance of cect13132 independently of the composition of the must or the presence of other native yeasts.

similarly in a study conducted in albarino white wines where three native strains were singly inoculated all strains were recovered and the percentage of imposition was between 90 and 100 in the different stages of fermentation  .

the initial growth of the non-saccharomyces yeasts was only observed clearly using synthetic must while the use of natural must seems to be more restrictive to the growth of this type of yeasts.

at time 0 non-saccharomyces strains were added into the must mimicking the natural yeast composition found in previous studies and the mixture of s. cerevisiae was incorporated 24 h later.

