mice were sequentially administered an oral infection comprising first four cycles of infection with f. nucleatum infection i through infection iv followed by a polybacterial infection with p. gingivalis t. denticola and t. forsythia infection v through infection viii.

f indicates that the chronic gingival infection effectively induced significant pd in ldlr-- mice.table 2. distribution of systemic infection in internal organs of ldlrnull mice.bacterial infectionpositive systemic tissue samples number of organs sampled by pcrto analyze intravascular infection of systemic organs heart aorta liver spleen kidney lungs total dna from each perspective organ was isolated and examined for four bacterial genomic dna by pcr using appropriate species-specific primers.cfigure 2. changes in systemic risk factors of atherosclerosis after sequential bacterial infection in ldlrnull mice.

our study findings were similar to these prior observations as the cholesterol levels observed in the infected mice lie in aforementioned range indi- cating that infection does not alter the serum lipid profile levels in ldlrnull mice.our previous experiments with p. gingivalis as a monobac- terial infection in apoenull mice demonstrated that although the serum levels of lipid molecules are not altered significantly by chronic infection p. gingivalis gingival infection can trigger atheroma plaque formation velsko et al.

b serum igg response in ldlrnull mice after 24 weeks of sequential polybacterial infection with f. nucleatum p. gingivalis t. denticola and t. forsythia n  12. the graph shows the response to gingival infection with periodontal bacteria expressed as fold increase over sham-infected mice n  12. c serum igm levels specific to f. nucleatum p. gingivalis t. denticola and t. forsythia after 24 weeks of bacterial infection.

.in order to mimic the sequential colonization of human pe- riodontal bacteria in the mice oral cavity a sequential infection model was adopted comprising infection with f. nucleatum in- termediate colonizer first followed by infection with p. gingi- valis t. denticola and t. forsythia late colonizers.

the focus of this study was to examine whether synergis- tic polybacterial infection can enhance pre-existing but minimal aortic atherosclerotic lesions in ldlrnull mice on normal chow diets.materials and methodsperiodontal bacterial strains and growth conditionsfusobacterium nucleatum atcc 49256 porphyromonas gingivalis atcc 53977 treponema denticola atcc 35404 and tannerella forsythia atcc 43037 were used for gingival infection in this study.

group 1 mice were infected with f. nucleatum fn followed by pgtdtf as polymicrobial infection n  12 and group ii mice were sham infected n  12. all mouse proce- dures were performed in accordance with the approved protocol guidelines by the iacuc of the university of florida iacuc pro- tocol  201004539. kanamycin 500 mg ml-1 was administered in drinking water for consecutive 3 days to the mice prior to the gingival infection.

for the remaining 12 weeks of infection with late colonizers the pres- ence of p. gingivalis t. denticola and t. forsythia genomic dna was determined after 6 and 7 infection cycles kesavalu et al.

.resultsperiodontal bacterial infection of the ldlrnull miceduring 24 weeks of bacterial infection ldlrnull mice were mon- itored for the presence of human periodontal bacteria fusobac- terium nucleatum porphyromonas gingivalis treponema denticola and tannerella forsythia by pcr using 16s rrna bacterial-specificprimers.

in the remaining 12 weeks of polybacterial infection 19th week of infection 7 out of 12 infected mice and 5 out of 12 mice were also positive for p. gingivalis and t. denticola respectively table .

in addition t. forsythia was colonized and induced significant igm antibodies even though the gingival plaque samples were not positive below threshold levels or due to difficulty in plaque sampling for genomic dna.alveolar bone resorptionthe progression of pd resulting from polymicrobial infection was examined by measuring the area between cej and abc on buccal and palatal surfaces of the molars to analyze the effects of polymicrobial infection.

n  10 for all graphs.model of mice rather than a short-term infection as this pro- vides the best index for observing the natural means by which periodontal infection can affect the distal organs involved in atherogenesis.a previous study from our laboratory rivera et al.

these observations signify the need to look for molecules which tandemly are associated with ldlr.in conclusion the results clearly demonstrate that i peri- odontal bacteria colonized the gingival pockets ii periodon- tal infection-elicited significant igg and igm immune responseiii polymicrobial infection-induced significant abr iv pres- ence of bacterial genomic dna in heart aorta liver and lungs indicating hematogenous dissemination v bacterial infection did not alter the serum lipid profiles and acute-phase protein saa vi bacterial infection did not enhance aortic plaque for- mation in infected ldlr deficient mice and vii bacterial infec- tion in infected ldlr-deficient mice differs significantly from apoe-- mice where pd bacteria were closely associated with increased atherosclerosis.

tel 352 273 6500 fax 352 273 6192 e-mail one sentence summary major periodontal bacterial sequential infection in infected ldlr-deficient mice differs significantly from apoe-- mice wherebacteria were closely associated with increased atherosclerosis.editor richard marconiabstractperiodontal disease pd and atherosclerotic vascular disease asvd are both chronic inflammatory diseases with a polymicrobial etiology and have been epidemiologically associated.

genomic dna from all four bacterial was detected in gingival plaque by pcr consistently demonstrating infection of mouse gingival surfaces.

