our data implicate serine metabolism as an intrinsic regulator of t cell proliferative capacity--indepen- dent of glycolysis--that is required for optimal t cell responses in vivo.resultsthe sgoc network is a metabolic hallmark of proliferating t cellsrecent work has identified the sgoc metabolic network as a metabolic feature of many cancer cells   a. to better understand the dynamics of sgoc metabolism during t cell responses in vivo we analyzed the expression of a subset of sgoc network genes in cd8 tcr- transgenic ot-i t cells specific for ova257-264 responding to ova-expressing listeria monocytogenes lmova infection in vivo as previously generated by the immunological genome project  b. we observed a clustering of sgoc network gene products increased in early cd8 teff cells 0.5-2 days post-infection dpi correlating with the stage of rapid teff cell expansion following infection.

articleserine is an essential metabolite for effector t cell expansiongraphical abstracthighlightsd enzymes of sgoc metabolism are upregulated upon t cell activationd serine is required for optimal t cell proliferation in vitro and in vivod serine supports de novo purine biosynthesis in proliferating t cellsd one-carbon units from formate can bypass serine starvationauthorseric h. ma glenn bantug takla griss ... martin j. richerchristoph hess russell g. jonescorrespondencein briefactivated lymphocytes reprogram their metabolism to support rapid growth and proliferation.

2017 cell metabolism 25 345-357february 7 2017 a 2016 elsevier inc. cell metabolismarticleserine is an essential metabolite for effector t cell expansioneric h. maglenn bantugtakla grissstephanie condottaradia m. johnsonbozena samborskanello mainolfivipin surihannah guakmaria l. balmermark j. verwaythomas c. raissiharmony tsui giselle boukhaledsofia henriques da costachristian frezzaconnie m. krawczykadam friedmanmark manfredimartin j. richerchristoph hessand russell g. jones1goodman cancer research centre mcgill university montreal qc h3a 1a3 canada 2department of physiology mcgill university montreal qc h3g 1y6 canada 3department of biomedicine immunobiology university of basel 4031 basel switzerland 4department of microbiology and immunology5microbiome and disease tolerance centre mcgill university montreal qc h3g 1y6 canada6raze therapeutics 400 technology square 10th floor cambridge ma 02139 usa7mrc cancer unit university of cambridge cambridge cb2 0xz uk8lead contactcorrespondence summaryduring immune challenge t lymphocytes engage pathways of anabolic metabolism to support clonal expansion and the development of effector func- tions.

collec- tively these data indicated that dietary serine restriction could impact antigen-specific t cell expansion in vivo.one consequence of impaired expansion of teff cells is a reduced memory t cell pool and reduced t cell responses and pathogen clearance upon re-challenge  .

teff cells readily metabolized glucose to lactate 13c-glclactate m3 and the tca cycle intermediate citrate 13c-glccitrate m2 regardless of serine and glycine avail- ability g. these data indicated that sgoc metabolism was functioning independently of glucose utilization and cellular bioenergetics in teff cells yet was required for t cell proliferation even when glucose was abundant.serine entry into one-carbon metabolism is a checkpoint for t cell proliferationwe next assessed whether the decrease in t cell proliferation triggered by serine limitation was due to the reduced flux of serine into the one-carbon metabolism pathway.

however the presence of fully labeled m4 purine nu- cleotides from u-13c-serine indicated that exogenous serine could contribute all the one-carbon and glycine components required for purine biosynthesis in proliferating teff cells.culturing teff cells with rz-2994 at doses that affected t cell proliferation but not cell viability figures s4a and s4b reduced the abundance of u-13c-serine-derived gtp and atp  d. analysis of the mid for purine nucleotides from rz- 2994-treated teff cells indicated that shmt inhibition particularly impacted the formation of highly labeled purine rings m3 and m4 e. these data indicate that sufficient shmt activity is required to source sufficient one-carbon units and glycine to complete purine biosynthesis.serine-dependent nucleotide biosynthesis is required for optimal t cell proliferation to test whether the inability of serine-starved t cells to proliferate was due to insufficient sgoc-dependent purine biosynthesiswe provided serine-starved t cells with formate a one-carbon metabolite used in the thf cycle to produce n10-formyl thf the one-carbon donor for purine nucleotide biosynthesis  a. formate can function to replenish the one-carbon pool in the absence of serine .

however providing t cells with formate and glycine reversed the anti-pro- liferative effects of rz-2994 on t cell proliferation d. collectively these data indicated that serine metabolism was essential for optimal t cell proliferation through its contribution to nucleotide biosynthesis.discussionreprogramming of t cell metabolism following antigenic stimulation is important for effective t cell-mediated immunity.

we show that extracel- lular serine is required for optimal t cell expansion even in glucose concentrations sufficient to support t cell activation bioenergetics and effector function.

one of the fundamental programs triggered by t cell receptor tcr activation is the re- programming of cellular metabolism to support the demands ofteff cell expansion .

the requirement of specific nutrients to support t cell function raises the possibil- ity that the metabolic microenvironment and nutrient availability can impact immunity by influencing t cell function.one pathway that has emerged as a key metabolic node in proliferating cells is one-carbon metabolism which encom- passes a network of interconnected biochemical pathways that facilitate the transfer of one-carbon units for biosynthesis  a. folate intermediates such as tetra- hydrofolate thf are active carriers of one-carbon units used for de novo nucleotide synthesis.

one-carbon units in the thf pool can also be used to generate deoxythymidine monophosphate dtmp or to synthesize methionine a. sita using u-13c-glucose or u-13c-serine revealed no label- ing of methionine from these carbon sources d. these data indicated that one-carbon units from either de novo synthe- sized serine or extracellular serine contributed to the thf cycle but did not continue into the methionine cycle.dietary serine availability dictates t cell responses in vivogiven that most of the intracellular serine in activated t cells was taken up from the extracellular environment  we ques- tioned whether extracellular serine availability could impact t cell responses in vivo.

serine restriction did not affect overall numbers of bystander cd8 figure s2c and cd4 figure s2d t cells following lmova infection consistent with our previous observation that overall immune cell numbers were not affected by the serine glycine-free feed table s2.next we examined the effect of serine restriction on endoge- nous t cell responses to listeria infection.

c57bl6 mice main- tained on control or serineglycine-free feed for 2 weeks were infected with lmova and endogenous cd8 and cd4 t cell re- sponses were assessed 7 days later c. similar to b the percentage and number of endogenous ova-spe- cific cd8 t cells were significantly reduced in animals maintained on the serine-restricted diet 7 dpi compared to ani- mals on the control diet d. analysis of splenocytesex vivo following re-stimulation with ova257 peptide revealed over a 50 reduction in both the number and percentage of ifn-g-producing cd8 t cells for animals maintained on the serine-restricted diet e. the number of ifn-g-produc- ing cd4 th1 cells responding to llo190 peptide stimulation was similarly reduced in mice fed the serineglycine-free chow figure s2e indicating that antigen-specific cd4 t cell re- sponses were similarly affected by serine restriction in vivo.

analysis of overall cd8 and cd4 t cell numbers in infected mice re- vealed no difference in total t cell numbers figure s2g.

to assess whether serine availability during t cell priming affects protective immunity we maintained c57bl6 mice on control or serineglycine-free feed for the duration of the primary lmova response 7 dpi after which all mice were switched to the control feed containing serine and glycine for an additional 25 days g. tracking ova-specific cd8 t cells in the peripheral blood of mice over the course of the immune response to lmova infection revealed similar contraction of ova-specificfigure 3. dietary serine restriction limits t cell responses to l. monocytogenesschematic of ot-i adoptive transfer and lmova infection experiment.representative flow cytometry plots for host cd45.1 or ova-specific cd45.2 cd8 t cells in the spleen of lmova-infected mice 7 dpi.

