colonized mice are represented with black circles infected mice with red squares and colonized and infected mice with black and red triangles.

in this model after confirmation of fungal gut establishment b colonized mice were then infected in the lateral vein with a sublethal dose of the fungus see below.to check out gut colonization of these mice we measured the fungal presence in the stools as reported previously figure 3. total serum titers of igg antibodies against c. albicans cell extracts in c ci and i mice.

a colonized mice at day 40. b colonized and infected mice at day 40. c infected mice at day 30.ci while the lowest levels were detected in the group i. on day 40 the group ci showed a 6.5-fold increase in serum anti- candida igg antibody titers compared with the group c and30-fold increase compared with the group i .

the untreated mouse group exhibited a weight loss from the beginning of the experiment until day 8 where the damage was up to 50 of the initial weight thus reflecting the lethality of the challenge.the survival rate of the mice from both models c and ci after the lethal challenge is shown in c. these data suggested that colonized mice developed protection against a lethal fungal challenge as reflected by a significant increase in the survival percentage compared with the untreated mice group c vs untreated group p  0.05 ci vs untreated group p  0.05.discussionthe opportunistic pathogen c. albicans exists as a commensal member of the mammalian microbiome of the gi tract from healthy humans.

this is a new approach using immunocompetent and healthy mice compared with the methods described in the literature because all of them employed immunosuppressed mice.these models have proved to be a useful tool for studying the immune response induced after c. albicans colonization in the face of immunodeficiency.we observed that serum anti-c. albicans antibody levels were significantly higher in colonized mice c and ci models than in the control serum obtained on day 0. an intensification of almost 7 times was also found in these levels compared with only colonized mice.

a sublethal systemic infection was generated after injecting a low inoculum of 105 c. albicans cells in the lateral vein of six noncolonized mice and six colonized mice at day 10 of colonization and maintained along 30 days.fungal burden.

serum samples were collected from the submaxillary vein of all the mice in each of the three models six mice per group at different days.

p  0.05 when colonized mice were compared with infected mice p  0.01 when the c model was compared with the ci model p  0.001 when the i model was compared with the ci model.b.

immunoreactive protein spots were detected using i the control serum from animals at day 0 a and ii pooled sera from colonized mice along the time at day 10 b and at day 55 c.figure 5. comparison of serum igg antibody-reactivity profiles from mice of the c ci and i models.

a group of untreated mice was also employed as a control of the lethality of the inoculum.we also tested the healthy state of the different groups of mice both before data not shown and after the lethal fungal challenge in the same way as described above.

the weight of the mice after the lethal challenge is displayed in b. a group of untreated mice without initial contact with the fungus was also analyzed.

after 10 days mice recovered their initial weight and after 15 days the colonized mice showed a weight similar to the beginning of the assay.

c survival of colonized mice and colonized plus infected mice.

the employment of a sublethal infection model has often been used to establish a chronic infection and study the course of the infection monitored by fungal load in the most representative organs like the kidney.the finding of low serum anti-c. albicans antibody levels in sublethally infected mice is in agreement with the low dose of inoculum and induced immune response.on theother hand when comparing serum antibody patterns from colonized or infected mice our results revealed differences in the serum composition.

protective responses using antibodies against fba1 hsp90 and met6 among others have already been de- scribed.the protective role of antibodies directed against eno1 has also been reported in a murine model of systemic candidiasis.supporting this idea mice vacci- nated with eno1 have shown higher survival time than mice that were not vaccinated.furthermore a synthetic glycopep- tide vaccine employing fba1 met6 hwp1 eno1 or pgk1 has been employed to induce protective immune responses against invasive candidiasis.c.

