The association between serum TMAO carnitine or betaine and colorectal cancer risk was not statistically significant P 0.25 0.71 and 0.61 respectively.Conclusions Higher serum choline concentration but not TMAO carnitine or betaine was associated with increased risk of colorectal cancer.Impact Serum choline levels showed strong prognostic value for prediction of incident colorectal cancer risk across all anatomical subsites suggesting a role of altered choline metabolism in colorectal cancer pathogenesis.

To facilitate comparisons to other studies we also present the associations between each bio- marker and risk of colon cancer defined as cancer diagnoses of either the proximal or distal colon in Supplementary Table S5 risk estimates for colon cancer are similar to overall colorectal cancer findings in that serum choline was positively associated with risk.DiscussionWe identified a strong association between serum choline the presumed major dietary source of TMA 23 from which TMAO is derived and the risk of colorectal cancer whereby men in theCancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 266 June 2017949Guertin et al.highest quartile of serum choline demonstrated a significantly increased 3-fold risk of developing colorectal cancer compared with men in the lowest quartile.

While betaine was reported to have an inverse correlation with colorectal cancer risk in the WHI study 8 we observed no association between betaine concentration and incident colorectal cancer develop- ment in this study of men.A link between choline and colorectal cancer risk has been previously reported 8 27.

Serum choline was strongly and statistically significantly associated with incident colorectal cancer risk Table 3 participants with higher serum choline had greater risk of developing colorectal cancer over the ensuing follow-up period Ptrend  0.0001.

Currently there is a limited understanding of choline's role in cancer etiology although a prior study demonstrated that choline kinase is overexpressed in human colorectal cancer cells 27 this enzyme initiates the first and rate-limiting step of converting choline to phosphatidylcholine.

The consistency in the direction of the significant choline risk estimates in this study and the WHI lends support to the validity of our choline findings and a connection between choline metabolism and colorectal cancer development.

We did not detect an association between serum betaine and colorectal cancer risk this is in contrast to two previously reported inverse associations between betaine and both colorectal cancer 8 colorectal adenoma 26.

 Research ArticleSerum Trimethylamine N-oxide Carnitine Choline and Betaine in Relation to Colorectal Cancer Risk in the Alpha Tocopherol Beta Carotene Cancer Prevention StudyKristin A. Guertin12 Xinmin S. Li3 Barry I. Graubard1 Demetrius Albanes1 Stephanie J. Weinstein1 James J. Goedert1 Zeneng Wang3 Stanley L. Hazen34 and Rashmi Sinha1AbstractBackground Trimethylamine N-oxide TMAO a choline- derived metabolite produced by gut microbiota and its biomark- er precursors have not been adequately evaluated in relation to colorectal cancer risk.Methods We investigated the relationship between serum concentrations of TMAO and its biomarker precursors choline carnitine and betaine and incident colorectal cancer risk in a nested case-control study of male smokers in the Alpha-Tocoph- erol Beta-Carotene Cancer Prevention ATBC Study.

We mea- sured biomarker concentrations in baseline fasting serum samples from 644 incident colorectal cancer cases and 644 controls using LCMS-MS. Logistic regression models estimated the ORs and 95 confidence interval CI for colorectal cancer by quartile Q of serum TMAO choline carnitine and betaine concentrations.

12 13 and colorectal cancer 7 14-19 and these foods are also dietary sources of TMAO precursors carnitine and choline in humans higher meat intake is associated with higher circulating and urinary TMAO levels 2 20.Collectively these studies suggest the need for further exami- nation of TMAO and related metabolites in relation to colorectal cancer risk.

