so while adaptation in pathogenesis genes appears specifically infection-associated other signals of adapta- tion in severely infected patients are driven by selection pressures which might compensate for an altered within-host environment during infection that are as likely to favor mutants in nose-coloniz- ing bacteria as infecting bacteria.signals of adaptation are specific to infected patients and differ from prevailing signatures of selectiontwo lines of evidence show that the newly discovered signatures of within-host adaptive evolution both in infecting and nose-colonizing bacteria are unique to evolution in infected patients.

to the left the number of altering yelloworange and truncating pinkred b-class variants is shown broken down by the population in which the mutant allele was found nose bc yellowpink or infection site bd orangered.the following figure supplements are available for figure 3figure supplement 1. genes enriched for substitutions between nose-colonizing and infection-causing bacteria within patients are not the most rapidly evolving at the species level.figure supplement 2. gene set enrichment analysis is robust to species-level differences in dnds between genes.adaptive evolution in pathogenesis genes is found only in infecting bacteriahaving identified adaptive evolution differentiating nose-colonizing and infection-causing bacteria we next asked whether the mutant alleles were preferentially found in the nose or infection site.

our results reveal that adaptive evolution of genes involved in regu- lation toxin production abscess formation cell-cell communication and bacterial-host interaction drives parallel differentiation between commensal constituents of the nose and infecting bacteria providing new insights into the evolution of infection in a major pathogen.resultsinfecting bacteria are typically descended from the patient's commensal bacteriawe identified 105 patients suffering severe s. aureus infections admitted to hospitals in oxford and brighton england for whom we could recover contemporaneous nose swabs from admission screening.

in 995 patients with extremely closely related nose-colonizing and infecting bacteria another unrelated st was also present in the nose six patients or the infection site three patients we excluded these unrelated bacteria from further analysis.

for each expression pathway we tested for an enrichment in genes that were up- or down-regulated compared to genes not differentially regulated.the most significant enrichment for protein-altering b-class variants between nose and infection sites occurred in the group of genes down-regulated by the cationic antimicrobial peptide camp ovispirin-1 p10-7.8 with a similar enrichment in genes down-regulated by temporin l exposure p10-6.9 .

we used 1149 sequen- ces from other patients and carriers reference panel ii to reconstruct the most recent commontable 1. distribution of infection types and relatedness of nose-colonizing and infecting s. aureusamong 105 patients revealed by genomic comparison.relation of nose-colonizing to infecting bacteriafigure 1. infection-causing s. aureus form closely related but distinct populations descended from nose-colonizing bacteria in the majority of infections.

taken together these lines of evidence show that the ontologies pathways and genes significantly differentiated between nose-colonizing and infecting bacteria arise in response to selection pressures specifically associated with infected patients and are not repeated in asymptomatic carriers or species-level evolution.discussionwe found that common life-threatening infections of s. aureus are frequently descended from com- mensal bacteria colonizing the nose.

this may reflect a reduction in the efficiency with which selection removes deleterious protein-truncating mutations and provides evidence of a sys- tematic difference in selection within severely infected patients.table 2. cross-classification of variants within patients by phylogenetic position and predicted functional effect and comparison to asymptomatic nose carriers.neutrality indices   were defined as the odds ratio of mutation counts relative to synonymous variants in patients versus asymptomatic nose carriers reference panel i. those significant at p0.05 and p0.005 are emboldened and underlined respectively.number of variants neutrality indexasymptomatic carriers  reference panel i for comparison n  13within nose-colonization c-class3797545184quorum sensing and cell-adhesion proteins exhibit adaptive evolution between nose-colonizing and infecting bacteriawe hypothesized that variants associated with infection would be enriched among the protein-alter- ing b-class variants between the nose and infection site .

this gave adjusted significance thresholds of 10-5.2 for genes 10-4.5 for biocyc ontologies and 10-4.2 for sammd expression pathways.longitudinal evolution in asymptomatic carriersto test whether the patterns of evolution we observed between colonizing and invading bacteria in severely infected patients were typical or unusual we analyzed reference panel iii a collection of 10 longitudinally sampled asymptomatic carriers.

we found significant depletions of protein-altering variants in carriers relative to patients in the rsp agr and sara regulons p10-4.0 and the pathogenesis ontology p10-3.2 .nor were the relative rates of non-synonymous to synonymous substitution dnds higher between unrelated s. aureus reference panel iv in the genes that contributed most to the signals associated with adaptation within patients agra agrc clfa clfb fnba and sasa.

conversely in 1049 patients bacteria colonizing the nose were likely descended from blood or deep tissue infections 20 of patients with related strains or 18 of all patients e.g.

the nose population was likely ancestral in 3949 80 of patients with related strains or 72 of all patients because all infecting bacteria shared de novo mutations in common that distinguished them from the mrca whereas nose-colonizing bacteria did not.

we acknowledge the support of wellcome trust centre for human genetics core funding grant 090532z09z.additional informationfundingfundergrant reference number authorwellcomehealth innovation challenge fund wt098615 z12zderrick w crooknational institute for health researchoxford nihr biomedical research centrederrick w crook timothy e petodepartment of healthhealth innovation challenge fund hicf-t5- 358royal societysir henry dale fellowship 101237z13zderrick w crookdaniel j wilsoninstitut me' rieuxme' rieux research grantrory bowden derrick w crook daniel j wilsonpublic health englandhpru in healthcareassociated infections and antimicrobial resistance hpru-2012-10041derrick w crook timothy e peto a sarah walkernational institute for health researchhpru in healthcare associated infections and antimicrobial resistance hpru-2012-10041derrick w crook timothy e peto a sarah walkerwellcomesir henry dale fellowship 101237z13zwellcomesir henry dale fellowship 102541z13zroyal societysir henry dale fellowship 102541z13zwellcomeresearch training fellowship 101611z13zwellcomewellcome trust centre for human genetics core funding 090532z09zdaniel j wilson zamin iqbal zamin iqbalbernadette c young rory bowdenthe funders had no role in study design data collection and interpretation or the decision to submit the work for publication.author contributionsbernadette c young study design sample collection dna extraction bioinformatics analysis writing chieh-hsi wu bioinformatics analysis writing n claire gordon sample collection dnaextraction kevin cole elian liu sanuki perera dna extraction james r price sample collection anna e sheppard jane charlesworth tanya golubchik zamin iqbal bioinformatics rory bowden ruth c massey study design interpretation john paul derrick w crook timothy e peto a sarah walker martin j llewelyn study design sample collection interpretation david h wyllie study design analysis daniel j wilson study design analysis writingauthor orcidsbernadette c young ruth c massey daniel j wilsonethicshuman subjects ethical approval for linking genetic sequences of s. aureus isolates to patient data without individual patient consent in oxford and brighton in the u.k. was obtained from berkshire ethics committee 10h050583 and the u.k. health research agency 8-05e2010.decision letter and author responsedecision letter author response additional filessupplementary filessupplementary file 1. list of all cultures included in the site the site of infection and any known source if bloodstream number of isolates sequenced from each site st or cc by in silico mlst number of variants found at each site and the mean pair-wise difference comparing isolates.supplementary file 2. list of all variants found within patients with s. aureus infections location on shared reference mrsa252 or position and reference genome name and accession number if vari- ant could not be localized on mrsa252.

these results raise the question are unique hallmarks of de novo mutation and selection associated with bacterial evolution in severely infected patientswe addressed this question by investigating the genetic variants arising from within-patient evo- lution of s. aureus sampled from 105 patients with concurrent nose colonization and blood or deep tissue infection.

ultimately it may be possible to develop therapies that utilize our new under- standing of within-patient evolution to target the root causes of infection from the bacterial perspective.materials and methodspatient sample collection105 patients with severe s. aureus infections for whom the organism could be cultured from both admission screening nasal swab and clinical sample were identified prospectively from the microbio- logical laboratories of hospitals in oxford and brighton england.

