clin exp rheumatol 24656-663scher ju abramson sb 2013 periodontal disease porphyromonas gingivalis and rheumatoid arthritis what trig- gers autoimmunity and clinical disease arthritis res ther 15 122scher ju sczesnak a longman rs et al 2013 expansion of intestinal prevotella copri correlates with enhanced susceptibility to arthritis.

arthritis rheum 5932-41makinen h hannonen p sokka t 2008 sex a major predictor of remission as measured by 28-joint disease activity score das28 in early rheumatoid arthritis ann rheum dis 67 1052-1053forslind k hafstrom i ahlmen m et al 2007 sex a major predictor of remission in early rheumatoid arthritis ann rheum dis 6646-52couderc m gottenberg je mariette x et al 2014 influence of gender on response to rituximab in patients with rheumatoid ar- thritis results from the autoimmunity and rituximab registry.

other investi- gators found the risk for nhl being increased 4-fold in male compared to female patients .while female sle patients have a higher incidence for osteoporosis and infections male sle patients have a higher rate of cvd stroke and malignancies with a dom-rheumatoid arthritisco-morbidities can precede the actual disease can occur with the disease or can be caused iatrogenic.

results from animal models with experimental arthritis suggest a pro- tection against lung disease arthritis and autoantibody pro- duction .epi-geneticsgeneral aspectsa normal karyotype consists of two sex chromosomes one derived from each parent.

doi 10.1007s12016-017-8631-6sex symptom severity and quality of life in rheumatologymarco krasselt1 christoph baerwald1 springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstract inflammatory rheumatic diseases such as rheuma- toid arthritis ra and systemic lupus erythematosus sle show a striking female predominance ranging from 31 in ra up to 91 in sle.

these find- ings emphasize the importance of dna de-methylation in sle gender bias.an extensive sex-specific genetic association study on au- tosomal genes 5932 female and 1495 male samples revealed that men most likely require a higher cumulative genetic load than women to develop an sle .rheumatoid arthritiscontrary to sle ra has been described only rarely in men with the klinefelter syndrome suggesting that the surplus x chromosome does not provide an additional ra risk .

due to higher prevalence of osteoporosis in women in the general population and the high amount of female sle patients oste- oporosis in sle has been mostly investigated in femaletable 4 sle co-morbidities in female compared to male patients sorted from the highest to the lowest femalemale ratiopatients  .

up to half of the pregnan- cies show a measurable disease activity  with lupus ne- phritis arthritis cutaneous disease and thrombocytopenia be- ing the most common manifestations.

j gen intern med 16266-275sokka t toloza s cutolo m et al 2009 women men and rheumatoid arthritis analyses of disease activity disease charac- teristics and treatments in the quest-ra study.

these results have been confirmed at least partly by another recent investigation while the physical domains have been lower in ra patients compared to sle patients the mental domains have been worse in sle patients .nevertheless symptom severity differs between genders as epidemiology of the same rheumatic disease does.

female sex hormones like estradiol not only take influence on the course of sle but also increase the disease risk itself.susceptibility genes many of them mapped to the x chro- mosome have been identified for sle as well as for ra.

nevertheless findings from clinical trials are less obvious despite efforts to use standardized disease activity assessment tools such as the sle disease activity index sledai -.

severe disease activity was defined as a systemic lupus erythematosus disease activity index sledai score 12. in accordance with this finding a recent meta-analysis investigating studies with a total of 11.934 sle patients found renal involvement serositis and pleurisy to be predominant in male patients  see table .

other factors associated with a poor quality of life are disease activ- ity itself and fibromyalgia -.rheumatoid arthritisintriguingly the disease phenotype of ra seems do dif- fer between genders in terms of erosive disease and extra-articular manifestations  which are both more common in male patients .

clostridiales have also been isolated from the synovia of ra patients which might be the consequence of a transloca- tion through a potentially disturbed gut barrier  .in line with these results other animal models even showed that germ-free mice did not develop joint inflammation where- as monocolonization with one germ drove th17-dependent arthritis .summing up those findings there is evidence that changes in gut microbiota might contribute to inflammatory arthritis such as ra in particular in individuals with a genetic predis- position such as the shared epitope.

