Among the infertile women in that sample diagnosed specifically with TFI 9.1 were seropositive for M. genitalium compared with 4.6 of the fertile controls although the association between TFI and M. genitalium was not statistically significant after adjusting for C. trachomatis seropositivity 61.Supporting evidence has shown an association between infection with M. genitalium at the time of infertility evaluation and laparoscopically-confirmed tubal infertility rather than serologically investigating past infection history.

Among PID patients those with prior C. trachomatis infection have been shown to be more likely to experience subsequent infertility than those without a history of C. trachomatis infection 32-35.While C. trachomatis seropositivity has long been shown to influence fallopian tube patency 36 the use of a newer more sensitive and specific anti-CT assay by Geisler and coworkers anti-CT assay has only recently been shown to hold promise as a measure of tubal function 37 38.

Among women with M. genitalium at baseline 3.9 developed PID after 12 months compared with 1.7 of women without baseline infection however this difference was not statistically significant 66.Oakeshott and colleagues concluded that because the population attributable risk of PID due to M. genitalium was only 4 M. genitalium infection is not an important risk factor for pelvic inflammation 79.

Other potential mechanisms linking T. vaginalis infection to infertility include disruption of sperm motility 93 phagocytosis of sperm and transportation of other infectious agents to the upper genital tract by motile trichomonads 86 87 although these mechanisms do not directly affect the female reproductive tract.Co-infection of T. vaginalis and C. trachomatis may increase the risk of upper genital tract infection more than the risk of C. trachomatis infection alone and women with both T. vaginalis and HIV-1 have been shown to have a significantly higher risk of PID than womenTSEVAT et al.Page 9without T. vaginalis 87 94.

Additionally female Swiss Webster mice developed upper reproductive tract infection as early as 3 days after being inoculated with M. genitalium showing experimentally that M. genitalium is capable not only of ascending through the upper genital tract but persistently colonizing reproductive tract tissues that could lead to long-term tubal inflammation and occlusion 71.Both serological and epidemiological studies have explored whether M. genitalium is associated with clinical PID and salpingitis.

While data is emerging on the impact of M. genitalium on the reproductive health of women further research is necessary to solidify any conclusions regarding M. genitalium and adverse pregnancy outcomes.Trichomonas vaginalisLike that of M. genitalium the role of Trichomonas vaginalis infection in reproductive tract pathology has been understudied but investigators have shown that it may be associated with female infertility.

However in the study by Svenstrup and colleagues that examined the relationship between M. genitalium seropositivity and TFI none of the women had a cervical swab specimen indicating current M. genitalium infection and only one was positive for C. trachomatis 24.

This particular European population may not be generalizable to populations with higher prevalence rates of M. genitalium infection where if confirmed this two-fold increased risk of PID due to M. genitalium infection could constitute a major public health problem 75.

A number of seroepidemiological studies have examined the prevalence of antibodies to C. trachomatis and chlamydial hsp60 in women with laparoscopically- or hysterosalpingographically-confirmed fallopian tube damage and ectopic pregnancies 22-28 indicating that history of C. trachomatis infection is associatedTSEVAT et al.Page 4with a significantly increased risk of tubal infertility in women regardless of the infection invoking clinical symptoms 20 25 29-32.

Still results are conflicting as Lind and colleagues assessed the significance of antibodies to M. genitalium in patients with acute salpingitis and failed to confirm any association 74.Recent studies have examined the relationship between current cervical or endometrial M. genitalium infection and upper genital tract infection 74-78.

