coordinated proliferation and migration of colonic epithelial cells are necessary for the maintenance of barrier function and epithelial restitution following an injury to the epithelial cells .adult colon stem cells sustain self-renewal and are target cells forcancer-initiating mutations .

in addition to the concept that cancer stem cells are the direct products of neoplastically transformed normal adult stem cells there is also evidence that transit amplifying cells with mutant genomes can dedifferentiate and enter the stem cell state .

it is apparent that inflammation can impact all stages of colon cancer development and nutritional strategies aimed at modulating inflammation and ros production may help mitigate disease risk.changes to microbiomemetabolome and their role in tumorigenesiscurrently investigations into the physiological mechanisms by which the microbiota can influence colon cancer risk are limited due to the diversity and complexity of the microbiota.

reviewshaping functional gut microbiota using dietary bioactives to reduce colon cancer riskderek v. seidel m. andrea azcarate-peril robert s. chapkin nancy d. turnera nutrition and food science department and faculty of genetics texas a  m university college station tx 77843-2253 usab department of medicine gi division university of north carolina chapel hill nc 27599-7555 usaa r t i c l e i n f o keywords bioactives colon cancer microbiome metabolomea b s t r a c t colon cancer is a multifactorial disease associated with a variety of lifestyle factors.

however the leucine-rich-repeat-containing g-protein- coupled receptor 5 positive lgr5 crypt base columnar cells are a strong candidate as these cells undergo cell division daily and their daughter cells constitute the transit-amplifying crypt compartment .

activation of the intrinsic pathway in response to dna damage provides a mechanism whereby dna da- maged cells can be removed from the tissue thus preventing the pro- pagation of transformed cells or retention of mutated progenitor cells .

the mechanisms responsible for the differentiation of naive t cells into treg cells include direct actions of butyrate on naive t cells i.e.

thus intestinal stem cells are considered the cell-of-origin of cancer because these cells already exhibit self-renewing capacity and multi- potency .

these findings reinforce the need to consider metabolomic profiles derived from multiple adjacent sampling sites to enhance biomarker discovery and personalized treatment and prevention strategies.to define a beneficial microbiota composition that is capable of suppressing crc it will be important to first understand the mechan- isms by which the microbiota can predispose host cells to carcinogen- esis.

application of site-specific sampling techniques in combination with more sensitive analytical approaches in future experiments will improve the ability to detect diet-induced modifications of host-mi- crobe interactions in colon cancer models.metabolomics analysis of crc patients versus healthy controls is auseful tool for investigating alterations in co-metabolism or metabolic exchange between host cells and the gut microbiota and permits iden- tification of novel crc metabolite biomarkers.

the concept that the gut microbiota canimpact the development and activity of the host immune system that the host immune system is a governor of the gut microbiota and thatmicrobial profiles are far more individualized than originally perceived underscores the necessity to understand how individual genetic poly- morphisms can 'personalize' the gut microbiota and consequently the ability of diet to influence these processes.

inflammation can occur in response to a variety of biological insults including in- fection by pathogens immune sensitivity autoimmunity and exposure to ionizing radiation and has been implicated in both sporadic color- ectal cancer crc and colitis-associated colon cancer cac .diet is a major contributor to human health and metabolism and research has demonstrated that diet also contributes to the composition and metabolism of the gut microbiota .

ma- ture senescent cells which are lost at the luminal surface via sloughing or spontaneous apoptosis are normally replaced at an equal rate by proliferating cells .

interest- ingly a role for diet in the regulation of intestinal stem cells has been reported .although the expansion of initiated cells is required for tumor for-mation previous work has shown cell proliferation to be a poorer predictor of tumor development than markers of differentiation and apoptosis .

additionally butyrate was shown to suppress colonic inflammation by two mechanisms 1 inhibition of stat1 phosphorylation by ifn-g in colonic epithelial cells leading to a reduction in inos expression and 2 inhibition of fas promoter-bound hdac1 leading to increased t cell expression of fas and thus enhanced sensitivity to apoptosis of acti- vated t cells thereby reducing t cell production of ifn-g .

