2013. as different plant species and varieties are characterized by distinct root exudation patterns the plant exerts a pro- nounced effect on root microbiota micallef et al.

2015. such interactions play key roles for soil quality plant productivity and plant health by for example mineralizing soil organic matter stimulating plant defence mechanisms andor inhibiting phytopathogens lugtenberg and kamilova 2009 com- pant et al.

phyla classes genera and otus were conserved across different plant compart- ments and plant species although the relative abundance of the common taxa varied across the five plant species.

constrained analysis of principal coordinates cap of bray-curtis dissimilarities based on 16s rrna gene v5-v6 regions split into the rhizosphere and root plant compartment and constrained to the plant grouping factor.

1994. plant species investi- gated in this study show different root morphologies supporting information table s1 which are likely to1414 a. samad et al.table 2. beta-diversity pairwise comparisons among plant species and sampling points.note significant values are indicated as p  0.05 p  0.01 p  0.001 p value adjustment method fdr.influence resource uptake and the formation of an interac- tion with microbial communities bardgett et al.

pcoa on the 16s rrna gene v5-v6 regions split into the rhizosphere and root plant compartment and col- oured by plant grouping factor.fig.

hyphomicrobiaceae were found as core member of the root microbiome in all eight studies reported here while comamonadaceae and oxalobacteraceae were observed as core taxa of the root microbiome in seven different studies table 3.plant species-specific otusevery plant species hosted unique otus in the rhizo- sphere as well as in association with roots fig.

despite the significant differences in microbiomes associated with dif- ferent plant species rhizosphere samples of the five plant species tested shared 145 otus which contributed to 52.4 of the total microbial abundance in the rhizosphere.

however the three above-mentioned genera varied inmicrobial communities associated with grapevine and vineyard weeds 1411table 1. alpha-diversity pairwise comparisons among plant species and sampling points.note significant values are indicated as p  0.05 p  0.01 p  0.001 p value adjustment method fdr.their abundance and species otu diversity in the differ- ent plant species and compartments fig.

2013 the rhizosphere microbiome significance of plant beneficial plant pathogenic and human pathogenic microorganisms.

2010 bhattacharyya and jha 2012. the rhizosphere is influenced by plant roots and root exudates and hosts an enormous diversity of microorganisms mendes et al.

2013. in addition the root endosphere is colonized by microorganisms spending at least part of their life cycle inside plant roots hardoim et al.

2014. together with the plant species the soil type is a major driver of microbiota in the root envi- ronment berg and smalla 2009.weeds are known to be good competitors in agricul- tural soils brenchley 1920 lorenzi 2008. they efficiently establish in agricultural fields and their interac- tion with soil microbiota may result in either better weed growth or impairing growth of their competitor plants klironomos 2002 reviewed by trognitz et al.

generally in the root compartment the plant species effect was stronger fig.

simpson index values of root microbiomes were significantly different across different plant species where- as in the rhizosphere significant differences were not observed fig.

