to our knowledge this study is the first to suggest a key role of bm b12-ars signaling in host-microbiota interactions and reveals specific molecular mechanisms that may lead to generation of novel anti-inflammatory treatments for many immune and autonomic diseases as well as gut dysbiosis across the board.keywords gut microbiota immune cells sympathetic nervous drive bone marrow colonintroductionthe gut harbors trillions of bacteria that modulates the host homeostasis within and outside the intestinal tract.

these indicate that the shift of gut microbial composition did not impact the major scfa production and colon histology.transcriptomic profiling identified three key transcripts associated with shifts in the gut microbiotawe have demonstrated that the loss of b12-ars signaling in bm resulted in a shift in the gut microbiota.

subsequently the global immunosuppression in the gut may thus potentiate the beneficial shifts in the gut microbiota.considering the recent association between gut dysbiosis and hypertension pluznick et al.

however the bidirectional communication between the brain and gut microbiota presents us with difficulties in determining the cause- effect relationship in disease which subsequently hinders the efficient treatment.the sympathetic nervous system sns and the immune system is are reciprocally regulated to maintain physiologic homeostasis and defend the host from pathologic threats bellinger and lorton 2014 janig 2014. although both alpha a- and beta-adrenergic receptors b-ars are expressed on immune cells ics janig 2014 lorton and bellinger 2015 it has been demonstrated that the adaptive is responds to sns cues predominantly via the b2-ars lorton and bellinger 2015 and that stimulation of b2-ars on ics modulates lymphocyte development survival proliferation activation and trafficking janig 2014 lorton and bellinger 2015. on the other hand the gut as the largest immune organ in the body reciprocally communicates with the host is and a variety of intestinal diseases have been associated with dysregulation of the is e.g.

typically one consequent feature of the gut dysbiosis is the reduced production of short chain fatty acids scfas the beneficial metabolites derived from anearobic fermentation of gut microbiota.

2012.collectively the critical regulatory role of the sns in the control of is and the importance of the is in maintaining gut homeostasis led to our hypothesis that the interaction between the sns and the gut microbiota involves sns-mediated modulation of is function.

2015 we postulated that manipulation of the sns effects on the bm ics will in turn affect the host gut microbiota composition that is associated with alterations in the gut is.

herein we demonstrate that loss of bm b12-ars signaling results in shifts in the gut microbiota composition and suppression of colon is indicating a novel mechanistic association between the host bm sns is and the gut microbiota.

positive cell numbers were divided by total cell numbers as indicated by dapi staining.resultsalterations in the gut microbiota in b12-ars ko chimerathe rodent gut microbiota is generally dominated by firmicutes and bacteroidetes phyla with proteobacteria actinobacteria and tenericutes constituting the remaining phyla yang et al.

by contrast the shifts in gut microbial composition is considered beneficial due to the depletion of pathogenic bacteria and alteration in fb ratio.functionally the end-products of anaerobic fermentation of the gut microbiota significantly contribute to the maintenance of intestinal and systemic homeostasis.

in this model we present several novel findingsi we were able to establish a direct and novel link between sympathetic regulation of bm local gut inflammatory networks and gut microbiota as ablation of b12-ars in the bm caused significant shifts in fecal bacterial composition toward what is considered beneficial i.e.

depletion of this sympathetic regulation on bm leads to beneficial shifts in gut microbiota associated with gut immune suppression.

 edited bycatia sternini university of california los angelesusareviewed bymichael kogut agricultural research service usdausabruno bonaz grenoble faculty of medicine andhospital france benoit chassainggeorgia state university usacorrespondencechristopher j. martyniuk jasenka zubcevic specialty section this article was submitted to gastrointestinal sciencesa section of the journal frontiers in physiologyreceived 02 february 2017accepted 27 march 2017published 12 april 2017citation yang t ahmari n schmidt jt redler t arocha r pacholec k magee kl malphurs w owen jlkrane ga li e wang gp vickroy tw raizada mk martyniuk cj and zubcevic j 2017 shifts in the gut microbiota composition due to depleted bone marrow beta adrenergic signaling are associated with suppressed inflammatory transcriptional networks in the mouse colon.

however a direct link between sympathetic dysregulation and gut dysbiosis remains to be illustrated.

bone marrow bm-derived immune cells continuously interact with the gut microbiota to maintain homeostasis in the host.

