a p  0.05 compared with mice fed a control diet c p  0.05 compared with mice fed a control diet treated with antibiotics d p  0.05 compared with mice fed a ffc diet treated with antibiotics.markers of lipogenesis in liverthe expression of srebp-1c mrna did not differ between the ffc-fed groups and was markedly higher than in the livers of both control groups p  0.05 for ffc and ffc  ab vs. c  ab and p  0.075 for ffc and p  0.072 for ffc  ab vs. c. the expression of acc was significantly higher in the livers of ffc- and c  ab-fed mice p  0.05 for both and induced by trend in ffc  ab-fed mice p  0.091 when compared to the controls receiving vehicle.

in contrast the expression of myd88 mrna was significantly higher in the livers of the ffc-fed mice than in the controls p  0.05 while expression of myd88 mrna in the livers of the ffc  ab-fed mice did not differ from that of both control groups ns for c vs. ffc  ab and c  ab vs. ffc  ab see figure .figure 3. effect of the short-term feeding of a ffc or control diet - oral antibiotic treatment on markers of tlr-4 signaling cascade and lipidperoxidation in liver tissue.

representative pictures of a heamatoxylin and eosin staining 200x b oil red o staining 200x and c neutrophilic granulocytes 200x arrows are indicators for neutrophilic granulocytes ffc section 630x of liver sections d evaluation of liver damage using nas and e quantification of hepatic triglyceride accumulation f number of neutrophilic granulocytes in liver.

indeed the protein levels of zo-1 were significantly higher in the small intestine of ffc  ab-fed mice when compared with mice only fed the ffc diet p  0.05 for ffc  ab vs. ffc.

similar differences were also found when comparing hepatic scd1 expression between ffc  ab-fed mice and controls without antibiotic treatment see table .markers of tlr-4 signaling as well as lipidperoxidation in liver tissuethe expression of tlr-4 mrna in the liver tissue was similar between groups.

a p  0.05 compared with mice fed a control diet c p  0.05 compared with mice fed a control diet treated with antibiotics d p  0.05 compared with mice fed an ffc diettreated with antibiotics.figure 2. cont.figure 2. effect of the short-term feeding of a ffc or control diet - oral antibiotic treatment on liver.

our data suggest that the development of early diet-induced hepatic steatosis in mice at least in part results from alterations of intestinal barrier function.keywords steatosis nafld antibiotics intestinal permeability microbiotaintroductionwith a prevalence ranging from 2 to 44 in the general european population and 24 among adults in northern america non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld is claimed to be the most common liver disease in the world by now .

hepatic triglycerides were extracted from whole liver tissue and measured as previously described .blood parameters of liver damage elisa and endotoxin measurementplasma alanine transaminase alt activity was determined using a colorimetric assay in a routine laboratory at university hospital of jena germany architect abbott gmbh  co. kg wiesbaden germany.

the endotoxin levels in portal plasma were measured with a commercially available limulus amebocyte lysate assay charles river ecully france as described previously .immunohistochemical staining for 4-hne protein adducts and inos protein in the liver as well as 3-nitrotyrosine protein adducts mmp-13 occludin and zo-1 protein in the small intestineparaffin-embedded liver sections 4 um were stained to determine the concentration of 4-hydroxynonenal 4-hne protein adducts and inducible nitric oxide synthase inos proteinusing polyclonal antibodies 4-hne h-1110 ag scientific san diego ca usa inos pa3-030a thermo fisher scientific waltham ma usa as described previously .

indeed nas used to determine liver histology and triglyceride concentrations as well as the number of neutrophils in the liver tissue were all significantly higher in the ffc-fed mice when compared to controls p  0.05 for all parameters when compared to controls see figure .

liver weight and liver to body weight ratio were also significantly higher in the two ffc-fed groups regardless of additional treatment and did not differ between ffc-groups.

a tlr-4 and b myd88 mrna expression in liver tissue cd representative pictures 200x and ef densitometric analysis of inos and 4-hne protein adduct staining in liver tissue.

as expected portal endotoxin levels and the expression of dependent signaling cascades in liver tissue were almost at the level of controls in ffc  ab-fed mice.

after adapting mice for 7 days to the intake of a liquid diet followed by 4 days of pretreatment with the non-resorbable antibiotics 92 mg polymyxin bkg body weightday and 216 mg neomycinkg body weightday or vehicle water added to the liquid control diet mice n  6-8group were either fed the liquid control diet or a diet rich in fat fructose  cholesterol ffc - antibiotics for another 4 days.histological evaluation of liver sections and hepatic lipid accumulationliver histology was assessed in paraffin-embedded sections 4 um stained with hematoxylin and eosin both sigma-aldrich steinheim germany using the nafld activity score nas as previously described .

however pai-1 protein levels were significantly lower in the livers of ffc  ab-fed and c  ab-fed mice when compared to ffc-fed mice while expression of il-1b in the liver was only significantly lower in the livers of c  ab-fed mice than in ffc-fed animals see table .

