it was plausible that a 2-week diet intervention in the present study might not be long enough to fully restore the gut microbiota pattern that was altered by hfd.studies in human gut microbiota continue to advance ourunderstanding on the correlation of gut microbiota compo- sition with chronic disorders such as obesity inflamma- tory bowel disease and cancer.

doi 10.1007s11745-017-4253-2short term high fat diet induces obesity-enhancing changes in mouse gut microbiota that are partially reversedby cessation of the high fat dietyue shang12  ehsan khafipour23  hooman derakhshani2  lindsei k. sarna12  connie w. woo4  yaw l. siow156  karmin o126received 30 september 2016  accepted 7 april 2017  published online 20 april 2017c aocs 2017abstract the gut microbiota is proposed as a metabolic organ involved in energy utilization and is associated with obesity.

these results suggest that short-term high fat diet with- drawal can restore metabolic changes and prevent excess body weight gain however long-term dietary intervention may be required to optimize the restoration of gut micro- biota in mouse.keywords dietary fat intervention  high fat diet  gut microbiota  mucosaabbreviationsanovaanalysis of varianceglmgeneral linear modelshfdhigh fat dietkeggkyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomesotuoperational taxonomic unitspcoaprincipal coordinate analysis permanovapermutational multivariate analysis ofvariancepicrustphylogenetic investigation of communi-ties by reconstruction of unobserved statesqiimequantitative insights into microbial ecologystampstatistical analysis of metagenomicprofilesintroductionobesity continues to be a global epidemic which pre- disposes obese people to a number of metabolic diseases including type-2 diabetes mellitus cardiovascular dis- ease and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease -.

the outer layer of the gut mucosa is usually colonized by commensal microbes whereas the inner layer of gut mucosa remains sterile  .

the microbial community especially the mucus-degrading bacteria is influenced by high fat diet hfd which in turn increases the degradation of the outer mucus layer in the gut .it has been reported that prolonged high fat consump- tion 8-24 weeks alters the composition and functional- ity of the gut microbiota in mice      .

studies conducted in germ- free mice have demonstrated that colonization of gut microbes from obese mice significantly increases body fat as compared to those transplanted with the lean coun- terpart indicating an important role of the gut microbiota in obesity   .

future research over a longer experimental period the use of humanized gnotobiotic mice  and well-designed human studies is warranted to further investigate the impact of dietary intervention on gut microbiota and physiological functions.in conclusion the present study has demonstrated that a short period of hfd feeding significantly increases body weight gain induces metabolic changes such as elevation of fasting blood glucose levels and hepatic lipid accumula- tion as well as altering the mucosa-associated gut micro- biota in mice.

however it has limited ability to restore the richness diversity and composition of gut microbiota in mice.acknowledgements this study was supported in part by the natu- ral sciences and engineering research council of canada st. boni- face hospital research centre and university of manitoba start-up grant program.referencesbackhed f ding h wang t hooper lv koh gy nagy a semenkovich cf gordon ji 2004 the gut microbiota as an environmental factor that regulates fat storage.

changes in dietary components have significant impacts on host metabolism and gut microbiota.

in the present study we examined the influence of dietary fat intervention on the modification of gut mucosa-associ- ated microbiota profile along with body weight and meta- bolic parameter changes.

furthermore the gut microbiota regulates the expression of genes and sign- aling pathways that influence nutrient absorption fat stor- age and metabolism in the host   -.

diet plays a major role in the modulation of gut microbiota  .

con- sequently the obesity-associated gut microbiota increases the capacity of the host to harvest energy from the diet which in turn induces an imbalance of energy consump- tion and utilization  .

how- ever little information is available concerning the effect of hfd feeding and withdrawal of hfd intervention forshorter periods on gut microbiota profile.

furthermore the short-term dietary impact on gut mucosa-associated microbiota is unknown.

