a and b naac c and d nap e and f nab.demonstrated that scfas have a therapeutic potential to protect against various inflammatory diseases in animal models e. in several studies scfas inhibited production of pro-inflammatory factors in neutrophils monocytes and macrophages e. scfas prevented lps-induced production of tnf-a and ifn-g in human peripheral mononuclear cells  and of tnf-a il 1b and il-6 through inhibition of the p65 protein translocation to the nu- cleus in raw264.7 cells .

furthermore scfa-mediated inhibition of mcp-1 expression was significantly blocked by sirna- induced gene silencing of gpr41 and gpr43.in conclusion scfas lowered tnf-a-induced mcp-1 expression by reducing phosphorylation of p38and jnk in a gpr4143-dependent manner in hrces suggesting that scfa modification may be a new therapeutic tool for preventing progression of renal inflammation and fibrosis.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.introductionshort-chain fatty acids scfas have six or less carbons and consist mainly of propionate acetate and butyrate.

considering the anti-inflammatory ef- fects of scfas in several inflammatory diseases scfas may atten- uate mcp-1 production via gpr41 or gpr43 activation in renal tubular cells.

c and d. in whole-cell lysates from confluent hrces gpr41 and gpr43 proteins were analyzed by immunoblotting.27 at 1000 mm f. these results suggested that all three scfas significantly reduced the expression of mcp-1 in hrces.scfas decreased tnf-a-stimulated expression of mcp-1 in a gpr41-or gpr43-dependent manner in hrcesnext we examined whether scfas reduced tnf-a-stimulated expression of mcp-1 via gpr41 and gpr43.

as a result we detected marked decreases in gpr41 and gpr43 mrna levels in the hrces treated with sirna against gpr41 and gpr43 respectively g and h. the simultaneous silencing of gpr41 and gpr43 in hrces blocked the nap-induced suppression of tnf- a-induced mcp-1 expression i and j.scfas decreased tnf-a-induced mcp-1 expression by suppressing p38 mapk and jnkto further investigate the molecular mechanism of the inhibi- tory effects of scfas on tnf-a-induced mcp-1 expression we attempted first to clarify the signal cascade whereby tnf-a induces mcp-1 expression and then to assess the effects of scfas via gpr41 and gpr43 on the cascade in hrces.

in contrast little is known about the anti-inflammatory effects of scfas on renal cells.in this study we showed that all three types of scfas reduced tnf- a-induced production of the pro-inflammatory chemokine mcp-1 in hrces.one of the most important findings in the current study was that sodium propionate reduced tnf-a-stimulated expression of mcp-1 dependent on gpr41 and gpr43 in hrces.

activation of gpr41 and gpr43 and inhibition of hdac an epigenetic modifier are generally considered to underlie the anti-inflammatory effects of scfas e. our study showed that this mechanism is sup- ported via gpr activation although we did not analyze the effect of scfas on hdac activity.

eshort-chain fatty acids gpr41 and gpr43 ligands inhibit tnf-a- induced mcp-1 expression by modulating p38 and jnk signaling pathways in human renal cortical epithelial cellsmamiko kobayashi  daisuke mikami   hideki kimura   kazuko kamiyama yukie morikawa  seiji yokoi  kenji kasuno  naoki takahashi  takanobu taniguchi masayuki iwano a department of nephrology faculty of medical sciences university of fukui fukui japanb department of clinical laboratory university of fukui hospital fukui japanc division of cellular signal transduction department of biochemistry asahikawa medical university asahikawa japana r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 13 march 2017accepted 16 march 2017available online 18 march 2017keywords gpr41 gpr43 scfamonocyte chemoattractant protein-1 p38jnka b s t r a c t short-chain fatty acids scfas such as acetate propionate and butyrate are produced predominantly by gut microbiota fermentation of dietary fiber.

scfas are newly identified as endogenous ligands of two orphan g protein-coupled receptors gpr41 and gpr43 which have the potential to modulate inflam- mation.

this study aimed at investigating whether scfas activate gpr41 and gpr43 and thereby exert anti-inflammatory effects in human renal cortical epithelial cells hrces as a main component of kidney tissue.immunohistochemical analyses of human renal biopsy specimens revealed the expression of gpr41 and gpr43 protein in the distal renal tubules and collecting tubules.

scfas especially propionate attenuated tnf-a- stimulated mcp-1 expression by inhibiting the phosphorylation of p38 and jnk.

scfas are produced exclusively in the human gastrointestinal gi tract via colonic bacteria fermentation of undigested carbohydrates and taken-up from gi tracts into the blood stream.

department of nephrology faculty of medical sciences university of fukui fukui japan 23-3 matsuoka-shimoaizuki eiheiji yoshida fukui 910-1193 japan.e-mail address d. mikami.intestinal lumen scfas act as energy sources for colonic epithelial cells.

scfas in the blood act as signaling molecules in peripheral tissues.

this confirmation may also explain the molecular mechanism for the association between modification of intestinal microbial flora and renal protection which has so far not been clarified.in the current study we attempted to investigate whether scfas activate gpr41 or gpr43 and if so whether they also inhibit tnf- a-induced inflammatory reactions via a gpr41-or gpr43- dependent manner in human renal cortical epithelial cells hrces which play a central role in the progression of ckd.methodsmaterialss-2-4-chlorophenyl-33-dimethyl-n-5-phenylthiazol-2-yl butanamide cfmb was purchased from calbiochem darmstadt germany.

