and N.J.L.. Other sources of contamination are cross-over from previous sequencing runs presence of the PhiX control DNA that is typically used in Illumina-based sequencing protocols and human or host DNA.Library preparation and sequencingThe choice of library preparation and sequencing method rests on availability of materials and services cost ease of automation and DNA sample quantification.

Computational quality control QC steps minimize fundamental sequence biases or artifacts such as removal of sequencing adaptors quality trimming removal of sequencing duplicates using for example FastQC Trimmomaticor Picard tools.

Although complementing DNA sequencing with RNA protein and metabolomic high-throughput assays is possi- ble with shotgun metatranscriptomics mass-spectrometry-based metaproteomics and metabolomics it is unclear how to integrate and analyze meta-omic data within a common framework.Virome shotgun sequencing.

We recommend that researchers use both approaches for sequence analysis whenever possible as they complement and validate each other.As for technological improvements in the sequencing of community DNA long-read sequencing platforms have matured and are likely to become useful for metagenomics assembly strategies although publi- cations are few at present.

and N.J.L.4 so the portability of the MinION raises the tantalizing pos- sibility of metagenomic sequencing in the field.An alternative experimental approach to improving genome recon- struction from metagenomes couples Illumina sequencing chemistry with a multiplexed pooling library preparation protocol.

Understanding the functions and characterizing specific strains of these communities offers biotechnological promise in therapeutic discovery and innovative ways to synthesize products using microbial factories and can pinpoint the contributions of microorganisms to planetary animal and human health.High-throughput sequencing approaches enable genomic analyses ideally of all microbes in a sample not just those that are amenable to cultivation.

One such method shotgun metagenomics is the untargeted 'shotgun' sequencing of all 'meta-' microbial genomes 'genomics' present in a sample.

Shotgun sequencing can be used to profile taxonomic composition and functional potential of microbial communities and to recover whole genome sequences.

Alternatively a two-tiered approach in which shotgun metagenomics is carried out on a subset of samples that have been pre-screened with less expensive microbial surveys such as 16S rRNA gene sequencing may be adopted N.S..Controls can be difficult to obtain especially for samples from com- plex environments.

The extraction method must be effective for diverse microbial taxa otherwise sequencing results may be dominated by DNA derived only from easy-to-lyse microbes.

