Non-colonized infants born to colo- nized mothers received colostrum with significantly higher SIgA than colonized motherinfant pairs for STIII and STV when adjusted for maternal age maternal weight maternal anemia and gestation p  0.0001 .siga in colostrum is associated with absence of infant colonization at Days 60-89Compared to infants who remained colonized on day 60-89 non-colonized infants received higher SIgA concentrations against STV in colostrum p  0.001.

Anti-GBS secretory IgA bound to the surface of whole bacteria was assessed by flow cytometry and a panel of 12 cytokines quantified by mesoscale discovery in colostrum breastmilk and serum.results Compared with infants receiving low anti-GBS SIgA in colostrum infants receiving high anti-GBS SIgA were at decreased risk of GBS colonization for serotypes III and V. Infants colonized at day 6 were twice as likely to receive colostrum with high TGF-b1 TNFa IL10 and IL-6 compared to uncolonized infants.

Persistently colonized infants were defined as infants where nasopharyn- geal and rectal swabs at birth day 6 and day 60-89 were all GBS positive.resUlTsThe maternal GBS colonization rate was 32 n  237 with 21 of infants colonized at birth n  158 20 colonized at day 6 n  152 and 7 of infants colonized on day 60-89 n  50 .

There was no association between other cytokines in breastmilk and infantcolonization at day 60-89 .DiscUssiOnThe results from our large cohort of motherinfant pairs show for the first time that SIgA and key immunomodulatory cytokines TNFa IL-6 IL-10 and TGF-b in colostrum may be associated with infant GBS colonization acquisition and clearance up to 3 months of life.Few studies have focused on the relationship between SIgA in breast milk and infant colonization with potential pathogens.

There have been few studies of the effect of breastmilk antibody on infant colonization but a small study of breastfed infants challenged postnatally with non-pathogenic E. coli demonstrated a reduc- tion in colonization with high breastmilk SIgA concentrations  whilst studies of H. influenzae  S. pneumoniae  and N. meningitides  demonstrate that increasing antibody concentrations in serum are associated with reduced risk of pharyngeal colonization with these bacteria.

In future studies it might be possible to consent for longitudinal swabbing in order to better understand the dynamics between maternal colonization breastmilk SIgA cytokine production and subsequent infant colonization over time.We did not conduct any analysis of the association between cytokines and SIgA antibody and GBS colonization as the com- plexity of the model and the sample size needed was outside of the scope of this study.

Associations between cytokines in colostrum breastmilk cord blood and infant serum are highlighted in .relationship between cytokines in colostrum and early infant colonizationInfants who were still colonized on day 6 of life were more likely to receive colostrum with high concentrations of TGF-b1OR 1.45 1.1-1.9 p  0.02 IL-10 2.8 1.1-7.5 p  0.05TNFa 2.4 1.1-5.0 p  0.02 and IL-6 2.4 1.2-5.0 p  0.02than non-colonized infants .

However we have demonstrated that infants who remained non-colonized received high concentrations ofSIgA in colostrum and high functional antibody in cord blood and infant serum  suggesting a role for both systemic and mucosal antibody in preventing GBS colonization.The low numbers of motherinfant pairs colonized with GBS STIa and III precluded detailed analysis of these GBS serotypes which are important causes of infant disease in many countries and represent two of the serotypes being targeted by the current vaccine candidates.

The association between breastmilk immune factors and infant colonization and disease prevention has not been elucidated.Objectives We have investigated the association between SIgA and cytokines in breastmilk and infant GBS colonization and clearance.Methods Motherinfant GBS colonization was determined in a prospective cohort of 750 Gambian motherinfant pairs followed to day 89 of life.

Infants receiving high colostral TGF-b1 TNFa and IL-6 had two-fold enhanced GBS clearance between birth and day 89.conclusion Our results suggest that the infant GBS colonization risk diminishes with increasing anti-GBS SIgA antibody in breastmilk and that key maternally derived cyto- kines might contribute to protection against infant colonization.

