esimultaneous selenate reduction and denitrification by a consortium of enriched mine site bacteriagaurav subedi jon taylor ido hatam susan a. baldwinchemical and biological engineering university of british columbia 2360 east mall vancouver british columbia v6t 1z3 canadah i g h l i g h t s a consortium of bacteria reduced selenate and nitrate simultaneously.selenate reduction rate was not inhibited by nitrate concentration.selenate reducing culture bacteria were pseudomonas lysinibacillus and thaurea related.selenate and nitrate reducing cultures included exiguobacterium and tissierella.genome analysis suggested the presence of putative selenate reductases.a r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 3 march 2017 received in revised form 23 may 2017accepted 24 may 2017available online 25 may 2017 handling editor t. cutrightkeywords selenate denitrification reductionmine influenced water bacterial enrichment metagenomea b s t r a c t increasing selenium concentrations in aquatic environments downstream of mine sites is of great concern due to selenium's bioaccumulation propensity and teratogenic toxicity.

and clostridium-xi increased in relative abundance in the nitrate containing cultures 6 and 8. the addition of another electron acceptor not only changed the composition but also increased the diversity of the communitytable 3statistical analysis results for the response surface model generated using second order analysis of variance anova of the central composite design experiment with the mine 2 natural marsh serb enrichment grown in media containing different initial se and nitrate concentrations see  k1 for ser was the dependent variable and total dissolved se and nitrate concentrations were the independent variables.

thus the objective of this work was to enrich for selenate reducing bacteria serb from different types of sediments receiving mine waste seepage water containing dissolved selenium since we hypothe- sized that organisms with this trait can be sourced locally.applying bioreduction of selenate on mine sites is challengingbecause the concentrations of selenium compounds in mine influenced water typically are much lower less than 1 mg l-1 total dissolved se for example than those for the other co- contaminants such as nitrate and sulfate both typically present at tens or hundreds of mg l-1 .

a composite sample was collected from four locations in the sediment layer of a biochemical reactor treating mine influ- enced water at mine 1 and one sample each was collected from fresh tailings coal mature tailings coal and a natural marsh impacted by coal mine seepage at mine 2. all samples were collected in plastic containers filled to the brim and securely sealed to maintain anoxic conditions.

although dissolved selenium concentrations at mine 1 were also above regulated limits  they were not as high as those at mine 2 and thus it was not surprising that there were fewer serb in the biochemical reactor sediment from mine 1. taken together initial screening of these mine site samples indicated that more serb were present and metabolically active at the sites experi- encing higher total dissolved selenium concentrations especially in the vegetated marsh sediments versus the coal tailings.

high relative abundance of the nitrite reductase nrfa sug- gests that the metabolic potential for dissimilatory nitrate reduc- tion to ammonium dnra was favourable especially in culture 6. there is some suggestion in the literature that in dnra nitrate reduction to nitrite is often carried out by napa .

removal of selenium from mine influenced water is complicated by the presence of nitrate which is also elevated in mine influenced water due to the use of explosives in mining.

these findings suggest that native mine site bacteria can be used for removing selenate and nitrate from mine wastewater.crown copyright c 2017 published by elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionsources of selenium se contamination in the environment include coal mining coal power generation crude oil extraction and refining metal ore mining and other sources  .

we hypothesized that since native sediment microbial populations are already adapted to the water chemistry and environmental conditions at the mine site they likely harbour co-occurring or even co-operating microor- ganisms capable of both selenate and nitrate reduction.

since themine 2 natural marsh enrichment appeared to be the most bio- logically active further characterization of it was carried out.reduction of selenate in the presence of nitrate by serb enrichment from mine 2 natural marshfurther enrichment in selenate growth medium over four 10 day passages of the natural marsh sediment confirmed persistence of the selenate reduction trait of the enriched species since at least 50 of the initial 1.6 g-selenate-se l-1 total dissolved selenium was reduced over the 10 day period of each passage .

3. the mine 2 natural marsh selenate enrichment culture serb was used to study selenate reduction in the presence of varying concentrations of nitrate.

additionally non-specific selenate and selenite reduction is carried out by some denitrifying microorganisms through the nitrate and nitrite reduction pathways  .

1.97.1.1 and key reductases of the dissimilatory deni- trification pathway nitrate narg napa nitrite nirs nirk for reduction to nitric oxide nrfa for reduction to ammonia nitric oxide norb norz and nitrous oxide nosz reductases respec- tively.

additionally non-native bacteria sourced else- where from the mine site may not survive in the complex envi- ronment of mine influenced water or foreign microorganisms introduced into mine influenced water bioreactors might present an undesirable risk if released with the treated effluent into the receiving environment.

here we report on a consortium of bacteria enriched from a vegetated wetland receiving mine influenced water that was capable of both selenate reduction and denitrification simultaneously.materials and methodsfield samplingsamples for enrichment were sourced from seven locations on two mine sites one near the town of likely in british columbia canada and the other in the elk valley also in british columbia canada.

