p  0.05.intestinal epithelial cell line caco-2tc-7 6-7 log cfucell when 100 lactobacilli per cell or 1.0 x 108 cfuml were initially inoculated  three l. paracasei strains were selected to evaluate the effect of gastric and intestinal stress on adhesion properties to caco- 2tc-7 cells and porcine gastric mucin .regarding adhesion to caco-2tc-7 cells gastrointestinal passage significantly p  0.05 increased the adhesion of l. paracasei cidca 83123 and 83124 in 0.5 and 1 log cycles respectively.

according to our results the five l. paracasei strains isolated from kefir survive simulated gastrointestinal passage in a strain dependent way being l. paracasei cidca 8339 83120 and 83123 more resistant than l. paracasei cidca 83121 and 83124. the higher decrease in viability was observed after exposure to simulation of the gastric con- ditions indicating that acid treatment exerted more damage to these strains than bile treatment or the acid stress exerted a selection toward bile salt-resistance microorganisms .lactic acid bacteria employ various mechanisms in response to acid stress including the maintenance of intracellular ph   preservation of cell membrane functionality   or induction of stress response proteins  .

it is noteworthy that gastrointestinal tract's passage simulation significantly increased p  0.05 adhesion to mucin of l. paracasei cidca 8339 83123 and 83124 indicating that gastric and intestinal stress causes changes in bacterial surface that led to an increased ability to adhere to the epithelium.proteomic analysisbidimensional electrophoresisbased on both its resistance to gastrointestinal simulation and its adhesion properties l. paracasei cidca 83123 was selected for pro- teomic analysis in order to study the changes induced by gastro- intestinal passage.

considering this the increased adhesion ability could be ascribed to both factors increased eps production andor presence of proteins that switch between unrelated functions depending on the cell location.these results demonstrate that l. paracasei strains studied isolated from kefir are potential candidates for the development of functional foods since gastrointestinal stress enhances their adhesion enabling the colonization of the human gut.acknowledgementsaab is fellows of argentina national research council conicet pc sat mas glg and aga and are members of scientific career of conicet.

in the present work we evaluate the adhesion ability in vitro of l. paracasei strains isolated from kefir grains after acid and bile stress and we observed that they survive simulated gastrointestinal passage in different levels depending on the strain.

though no changes in colony phenotype of l. paracasei cidca 83123 stress-survivors were observed compared to non-stressed bac- teria eps production per cell increased after gastrointestinal passage from 3.1 to 13.2 mg108 cfu unpublished data.adhesion of l. paracasei strains isolated from kefir to mucin and epithelial cells increases after gastrointestinal stress.

differences were statistically tested using tukey's multiple comparison test p  0.05 conducted by the graphpad prismr software.resultssurvival of lactobacillus paracasei strains after simulated gastrointestinal passagethe ability of five l. paracasei strains to survive to the simulated gastrointestinal conditions was assessed.

paracasei adhesion epithelial cells proteomic analysisa b s t r a c t gastrointestinal conditions along the digestive tract are the main stress to which probiotics administrated orally are exposed because they must survive these adverse conditions and arrive alive to the intestine.

simulated gastrointestinal conditions increase adhesion ability oflactobacillus paracasei strains isolated from kefir to caco-2 cells and mucinana agustina bengoa lucia zavala paula carasi sebastian alejandro trejo silvia bronsoms maria de los angeles serradell graciela liliana garroteanalia graciela abrahama centro de investigacion y desarrollo en criotecnologia de alimentos cidca facultad de ciencias exactas universidad nacional de la plata conicet cct la platacic.pba 47 y 116 la plata buenos aires argentinab catedra de microbiologia dpto.

2. adhesion to caco-2 cells a and porcine gastric mucin b of l. paracasei strains before   and after   passage through gastrointestinal conditions.

moreover it is worth to remark that after gastrointestinal passage l. paracasei strains have increased their ability to adhere to mucin and epithelial cells in vitro being this factor of relevance for maintenance of the strain in the gut en- vironment to exert its probiotic action.introductionexposure to gastric and intestinal conditions along the digestive tract fluids is the main stress that might affect the viability of ingested probiotics microorganisms .

since the evaluation of lactobacilli adhesiveness after subjecting to the gastro- intestinal stress can provide a suitable model that approaches to phy- siological conditions the aim of the present work was to evaluate ad- hesion ability of l. paracasei strains isolated from kefir grain after acid and bile stress.materials and methodsbacterial strains and growth conditionslactobacillus paracasei cidca 8339 83120 83121 83123 and 83124 isolated from kefir grains  were cultured in mrs-broth difco detroit usa at 30 degc for 48 h in aerobic condi- tions.

nevertheless there are very few reports on the adhesion properties to epithelium and mucus of microorganisms after passing through the gastrointestinal tract.

nevertheless bile or acid stress not always led to increased adhesion ability since results obtained with l. delbrueckii subsp.

paracasei strains studied in this work are polysaccharide produ- cing bacteria  in consequence is feasible to think the intervention of carbohydrate components in adhesion properties.

