The autosampler stability was tested by analyzing QC samples at 4degC for 24 h.TABLE 1 The related MS data of amentoflavone AMF and three metabolitesFIGURE 2 Representative MSMS spectra.

The structures of these metabolites are proposed and confirmed by comparing the retention times and MSMS spectra with those of authentic standards Xu et al.

The mixture was centrifuged at 1000 g for 5 min and the suspension was used as human intestinal bacterial mixture.

The bacterial mixture without AMF was incubated for 24 h as a blank sample.

The supernatant was trans- ferred into another tube and freeze-dried.

The supernatant was dissolved in 1 mL of 40 methanol and centrifuged at 13000 g for 10 min then the supernatant was analyzed by LTQ- Orbitrap-MS. UHPLCESI LTQ-Orbitrap parametersAn LTQ Orbitrap Velos mass spectrometer Thermo Scientific Hemel Hempstead UK equipped with an ESI source was used to acquire mass spectra in profile.

The column was equilibrated for 2 min prior to each analysis.The optimized operating parameters in the negative ion mode were as follows source voltage 3 kV sheath gas 40 arbitrary units auxiliary gas 15 arbitrary units sweep gas 0 arbitrary units and capillary temperature 275degC.

The LTQ delivers single-stagemass analysis providing molecular mass information two-stage massanalysis MSMS and multi-stage mass analysis MSn which gives structural information.

The limit of quantification was determined as the lowest concentration of calibration curve signal-to-noise ratio  10.The precision and accuracy were estimated by analyzing five rep- licates of QC samples at three different concentrations low medium high.

The acceptance values used for validation of RSD and RE were within 15.The matrix effect of analyte was determined at three different concentrations 0.1 1 10 mgmL of QC samples n  5 by comparing the area ratio of the analyte in the spiked samples after extraction with that acquired from the standard solutions at equivalent concentrations.

