much ef- fort has been involved in determining whether fmt is effec- tive against patients with active uc.21216 in canada and the netherlands moayyedi et al.17 reported that fmt induced remission in a significantly greater percentage of patients with active uc than did the placebo however rossen et al.18 reported no statistically significant difference in clinical and endoscopic remission between uc patients who received fecal microbiota from a healthy donor and those who re- ceived their own fecal microbiota.

the precise patho- physiology of uc is unclear although this immunological dysregulation may correlate with changes in the colonic environment including the intestinal microbiota.1-4 recent studies have shown that the composition of the microbiota in patients with uc differs from that in healthy controls and that microbiota imbalance also known as dysbiosis is as-c copyright 2017. korean association for the study of intestinal diseases.

these drugs play a pivotal role in ibd therapy however fmt may address different aspects of uc pathophysiology by resolving dysbiosis and improving uc therapy.

moayyedi et al.17 reported that fmt could induce remis- sion in patients with active uc however the authors gave retention enemas to patients once per week for 6 weeks.therefore the frequency of our fmt protocol may be a ma- jor limitation for inducing remission in active uc patients.

a varied microbiota is vital to the induction of symbiosis in patients with uc therefore the ideal donors in future fmt studies would be healthy volun- teers unrelated to the patient.further evaluations are needed to elucidate the efficacy of fmt for uc however this form of clinical development with high ethical concerns should be very fairly and carefully performed until its safety is confirmed.

fecal microbiota transplantation fmt for patients with ulcerative colitis uc is proposed as a potential approach to resolving their dysbiosis however its safety and ef- ficacy have not been confirmed.

intest res 20171568-74key words colitis ulcerative fecal microbiota transplantation dysbiosisintroductionulcerative colitis uc is a chronic inflammatory disease of the colon and rectum that is induced by an inappropri- ate mucosal immunological response.

these results showed that intestinal microbiota can be transplanted into genetically dissimilar mice in an identical environment and led to the hypotheses that resolving dysbiosis could poten- tially ameliorate colitis and that human fecal microbiota transplantation fmt may be a method by which to accom- plish this.several studies have shown that certain probiotics induce symbiosis in patients with uc78 however the meta-analysis of mallon et al.9 suggested that probiotics do not induce remission in patients with active uc.

the dna was then pelleted by centrifugation rinsed with 75 ethanol and dissolved in tris-edta buffer.sequencing and processing of bacterial 16s rrna gene from the fecal dnathe fecal dna samples were sequenced using the 454 gs flx titanium and flx roche basel switzerland sequencing system.

b comparison of the top four fecal bacteria at the phylum level and c the top five fecal bacte- ria at the species level comparing pre- and post-fmt.

this single-arm open-label non-randomized study aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of fmt for japanese patients with uc as the first registered clinical trial in japan.

methods we enrolled 10 patients with active uc despite medical therapy.

conclusions the use of single fmt for uc was safe however we failed to show its clinical efficacy and potential to change the intestinal microbiota.

garret et al.4 showed that wild-type mice developed colitis when co-housed with t-bet--xrag2-- uc mice a spontaneously induced colitis model.

dysbiosis leads to impaired colonization resistance to microbial pathogens while fmt is thought to induce the metabolic function and colonization resistance of the micro- biota and recover the composition of the intestinal flora in patients with uc.

