Kim M. T. Ochoa S. R. Krutzik O. Takeuchi S. Uematsu A. J. Legaspi H. D. Brightbill D. Holland W. J. Cunliffe S. Akira P. A. Sieling P. J. Godowski R. L. Modlin J. Immunol.

Tables S3 and S4 provide further information.After 28 days the number of both non-inflammatory and inflam- matory lesions had significantly decreased P.05 with no significant difference between the tested products Figure S1.Both products were well tolerated with no signs of erythema dry-ness desquamation pruritus stinging or burning sensation.4  DISCUSSION The aim of this exploratory study was to investigate the characteristicsof the microbiota on the surface of both skin areas without and withTABLE 1 Main bacterial phyla and genus in percentage at the skin surface of the 3 sampled areas comedones papulo-pustular and skin with no acne lesions at Day 0 n26P.05 vs skin with no acne lesions.FIGURE 3 Boxplots of Staphylococcus genus at the skin surface of three sampled areas comedones B papulo-pustular area C andskin area with no acne lesions A with GEA-2 n16 and GEA-3 acne severity n10 at Day 0--test of difference of mean between GEA-2 vs GEA-3 by areaacne lesions and to determine changes in the microbiota profile after 28 days of a once-daily application of either erythromycin 4 or a dermocosmetic containing lipohydroxy acid salicylic acid linoleic acid niacinamide piroctone olamine a ceramide and thermal spring water.

As such it plays a physiological role in inhibiting the invasion of pathogenic bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus S. aureus and S. pyogenes in making the skin inhospitable for these pathogens such as S. aureus or Streptococcus pyogenes while allowing other commensal Staphylococci strains such as S. epidermis to grow.11819 P. acnes maintains the natural pH in the skin and that of the sebaceous glands by hydro- lyzing triglycerides releasing free fatty acids and secreting propionic acid.1 Moreover Staphylococcus epidermidis and P. acnes have been shown to interact.20 Studies suggest that S. epidermidis owns an ar- senal of different mechanisms to inhibit proliferation of P. acnes2021participating in the equilibrium of the microbiota and in a balancedimmune system thereby allowing for a healthy skin.The aim of this study was to investigate the microbiota profile on the epidermis of skin areas with acne lesions comedones and papulo- pustular lesions and of skin areas without visible acne lesions.

The Shannon Index indicated a similar microbial diversity on areas with papulo-pustular lesions with comedones and skin with- out acne lesions between-group differences for acne severity grade 2 n16 and grade 3 n10 were statistically not significant P.39.At Day 0 the analysis of the bacterial phyla showed that independentlyfrom the location 40 on cheeks 6 on the forehead 9 on the templesFIGURE 1 Bacterial Phyla p at the skin surface of the cheek n29 or forehead and temple n11 of subjects with acne at D0FIGURE 2 Boxplots of main bacterial Phyla p on the skin surface of the three sampled areas comedones B papulo-pustularC and skin are with no acne lesions A at Day 0 n26--Test ofdifference of mean between B vs A and C vs A by main bacterial Phylaor 45 on the chins all three sampling areas had similar profiles with no difference in acne severity.

Only an analysis of the skin microbiota comparing samples from a more important surface obtained from the same patient using both swabs for sampling the skin surface microbiota and strips sampling the skin surface and folli- cle microbiota may allow for a better differentiation between the bacterial population of the follicle and the skin surface.Moreover the present results indicate that the concentration of Staphylococcus increases with the severity of acne which contradicts observations made by Numata et al.

News 2012 202 60.SUPPORTING INFORMATION Additional Supporting Information may be found online in the support- ing information tab for this article.Table S1 Summary of patient demographics and clinical assessmentof disease severity on Day 0.Table S2 Lesion count and Shannon Index at Day 0 n26.Table S3 Main bacterial phyla and genus in percentage at the skin surface of the 3 sampled areas comedones papulo-pustular and skin area with no acne lesions for the hemi-face receiving Erythromycin 4 before Day 0 and after Day 28 treatment n26.Table S4 Main bacterial phyla and genus in percentage on the skin surface of the 3 sampled areas comedones papulo-pustular and skin area with no acne lesions for the hemi-face receiving thedermocosmetic before Day 0 and after Day 28 treatment n26.

A. Sanchez J. D. Nosanchuk A. J. Friedman J.

Bouslimani C. Porto C. M. Rath M. Wang Y. Guo A. Gonzalez D. Berg-Lyon G. Ackermann G. J. Moeller Christensen T. Nakatsuji L. Zhang A. W. Borkowski M. J. Meehan K. Dorrestein R. L. Gallo N. Bandeira R. Knight T. Alexandrov P. C. Dorrestein Proc.

This symbiotic relationship between the skin and the commensal microbial community the micro- biota forms a complex barrier against external insults with differences between the microbiome of the skin surface and skin appendices.1The colonizing microorganisms are in a constant dialogue with their host by the virtue of complex signals provided by the innate and the adaptive immune systems.

Three-dimensional topographic analyses and microbiome profiling have shown differences between the microbiota composition in healthy skin and in skin with acne as well as natural differences in microbial colonization between the se- baceous gland and the skin surface.16 Moreover cutaneous bacterial communities have been shown to be involved in the immune homoeo- stasis and inflammatory responses and both are known for triggeringacne.17But P. acnes is not only one of the main acne triggers it is also a commensal bacterium inhabiting the sebaceous follicle.

