considering the previously known association of the skin microbiome and cutaneous immune defence 29 30 it could have been expected that lesional pa- rapsoriasis would have an effect on the microbiome or vice versa local or systemic immunological factors of the patients would have had an effect on the cutaneous microbiome 31.in recent studies it has been demonstrated clearly that the composition of the skin microbiome is influenced by the host's native and adaptive immune system due to a constant interaction 32. systemically acting or locally effective factors of the immune system have been shown to impact the cutaneous microbiological diversity 32-34. in addition specific environmental factors such as the patient's occupation skin type exposure to ultraviolet uv-light and the use of antibiotics have been shown to influence the micro-organisms colonizing the skin 35 36.some recent studies have investigated the role of the microbiome in skin cancer but this field of research has only just begun to explore how the skin microbiome might influence the development of premalignant and malignant skin changes 37 38. some parallels have been drawn with the gut microbiome which has been shown to directly impact the risk of cancer by promoting inflammation 39. the skin microbiome is almost as diverse as the gut microbiome and might affect the risk of several diseases including cancer 40.multiple reasons may explain why the skin micro- biome in the patients' lesional parapsoriasis skin in our patient cohort showed no variation compared with their healthy control skin.

the- se results suggest that parapsoriasis is not associated with significant alterations in the cutaneous bacterial microbiome.key words skin microbiome cutaneous microbial diversity cutaneous microbes large-plaque parapsoriasis small-plaque parapsoriasis cutaneous t-cell lymphoma.accepted feb 7 2017 epub ahead of print feb 8 2017acta derm venereol 2017 97 685-691.corr alexander salava department of dermatology and allergology helsinki university hospital meilahdentie 2 fin-00029 helsinki finland.e-mail ovel molecular techniques have greatly improved our knowledge of the skin microbiome 1. genomic studies with targeted sequencing of parts of the gene co- ding for ribosomal 16s rna have shown that cutaneous microbial colonization is more complex than previously thought 2. studies characterizing the microbiota of different body sites in humans have revealed that the spectrum of micro-organisms varies depending on nu- merous intrinsic and extrinsic factors 3-5. common skin diseases such as atopic dermatitis have been linked to specific changes in the microbiome 6 7. however it remains unclear whether these changes are caused by microbes or are secondary to factors such as changes inthe skin barrier or immunological factors 8.parapsoriasis refers to a group of cutaneous lympho- proliferative disorders ranging from a chronic dermati- tis-like picture at one end to a picture mimicking patch-stage cutaneous t-cell lymphoma ctcl at the other 9. clinical findings are traditionally used to classify the disease into small-plaque parapsoriasis spp i.e.

in other words the microbiome was more alike between the same patient's samples even though one was from lesional and the other from healthy skin than compared with the samples of other patients regardless of samplelesion status or large-small-plaque parapsoriasis type.skin microbiome in parapsoriasis689comparisons of specific taxadeseq2 was used to search for differentially abun- dant taxa between the sample types healthy skin vs. parapsoriasis lesion.

salava et al.could offer new insight into parapsoriasis and cutaneous lymphomas 43.the role of the skin microbiome in parapsoriasis remains uncertain but it would be important to further define how the microbiome changes during disease progression and to undertake metabolomics studies.

it was recently shown that staphylococcal enterotoxin a sea from the affected skin of patients with ctcl induces in vitro interleukin il-17 production in primary malignant t cells of patients with sezary syndrome when co-cultured with autologous non-malignant t cells but not in monocultures of malignant t cells 13. since parapsoriasis often precedes mycosis fungoides 10 which is the most common form of ctcl the aims of this study were to investigate whether parapsoriasis lesions would have a different skin surface microbiome compared with the individual's healthy non-lesional skin sites and to explore the association of any specific bacteria with the chronic t-cell proliferation underlying parapsoriasis.

considering that the overall skin microbiota in our subjects appear to be similar to those found in subjects with healthy skin in many previous studies 28 the results of the current study suggest that overgrowth of any specific bacterial genus is not driving parapsoriasis nor does parapsoriasis alter human skin bacterial communities.while parapsoriasis belongs to the spectrum of lymphoproliferative diseases of the skin the evolution of parapsoriasis is strongly influenced by the host's immune response.

in common skin diseases such as atopic dermatitis the demonstrated changes in the skin microbiome during disease progres- sion and flares have been relatively characteristic and this fact could be a potential target for future studies re- lated to parapsoriasis 41 42. modern molecular tools for characterizing the skin microbiome have proved to be sensitive and less biased than older methods and690a.

statistical comparisons of the relative abundances of the 5 stap- hylococcus oligotypes did not reveal any differences between plaques and healthy skin or parapsoriasis subtypes data not shown.discussionto our knowledge this is the first publication on the skin microbiome in parapsoriasis.

the role of staphylococci has not been investigated in parapsoriasis earlier but because of the fact that parapsoriasis belongs to the spectrum of cutaneous lymphoproliferative dis- orders and often precedes mycosis fungoides the most prevalent type of ctcl 10 we expected to see changes in the skin microbiome.

2. there was no sta- tistically significant difference either between healthy control and lesional parapsoriasis skin kruskal-wallis rank sum test p  0.34 for both indices or between the small and large-plaque parapsoriasis groups p  0.57 for both indices.in all patients the microbial communities on lesional parapsoriasis skin and healthy control skin were very similar.

overall abundances of the 10 most common genera in the microbiome data  out of total sequence readsskin microbiome in parapsoriasis687beads beckman coulter finland oy vantaa finland and pooled.

differential abundance of taxa was tested with the package deseq2 25.resultsgeneral characteristics of the microbiome findingsthe skin microbiome data for our patients with para- psoriasis represented a total of 410 genera 39 classes and 21 phyla.

this study examined changes in the skin microbiome of parapsoriasis compared with intact skin.

a further aim was to investigate whether the skin microbiome swab sampling could offer a cost-effective and non-invasive diagnostic method to study parapsoriasis in patients whose skin is otherwise repeatedly biopsied.methodspatients and skin samplingthe clinical part of the study was carried out in january-may and september of 2014 at the department of dermatology and aller- gology helsinki university hospital helsinki finland.

specific differences between ctcl and parapsoriasis t-cell infiltrate localized and systemic disease the metabolomics properties of the microbiome and unknown confounders may explain our observations.

