For each SM four experimental groups of male mice were used i Control group ii SM group iii DSS group injected with azoxymethane AOM and drank dextran sulfate sodium DSS and iv DSS SM group treated with AOM DSS and the SM.

As expected there was no significant modification of AM levels in untreated animals but in DSS-treated mice there was a downregulation by the inhibitory SM 16311 and a significant upregulation by the positive modulator 145425 which would help to explain the beneficial effects of SM 145425 and the increase of colitis symptoms by SM 16311.

SM 16311-treated mice exhibited severe colitis symptoms reaching higher scores than their DSS-treated counterparts B. SM 145425 had no effect on any of the parameters studied CD.

In addition several small molecules SM have been identified which can either increase or decrease AM or PAMP functions.To further investigate the contribution of AM and its gene-related peptide PAMP to the progression and potential treatment of colon cancer we have studied the effects of several SM related to AM and PAMP on a mouse model of colon cancer.

The four experimental groups were untreated Control SM-treated SM DSS-treated DSS SM and DSS-treated DSSSM.

SM 145425 significantly reduced the number of tumors in treated mice C. The reduction in thenumber of tumors was also evidenced by a reduction in colon weight D. SM 16311 had no significant effect on any of these parameters AB.

with AOM and drank DSS n  20 and iv DSS  SM group treated with AOM DSS and the SM n  20.

OPENReceived 31 July 2017Accepted 28 November 2017 Published xx xx xxxxSmall molecules related to adrenomedullin reduce tumor burden in a mouse model of colitis- associated colon cancerLaura Ochoa-Callejero1 Josune Garcia-Sanmartin 1 Sonia Martinez-Herrero1 Susana Rubio-Mediavilla2 Judit Narro-Iniguez1  Alfredo Martinez 1To investigate the contribution of adrenomedullin AM and its gene-related peptide proadrenomedullin N-terminal 20 peptide PAMP to the progression and potential treatment of colon cancer we studied the effects of four small molecules SM related to AM and PAMP on a mouse model of colon cancer.

SM 145425 regulated the expression of proliferation marker Lgr5 and had an impact on microbiota preventing the DSS-elicited increase of the BacteroidesPrevotella ratio.

SM 16311 had a negative influence in the health status of DSS-treated mice.

