interestingly the overall pattern of 3-diversity across the chronosequence was maintained in each of the two clusters  with bacterial community structure becoming more similar to those of reference sites with increasing chronosequence age.

in contrast sir was mainly correlated with bacterial community shifts that occurred with chronosequence age with an increase along the chronosequence.

chronosequence ages had significant effects on more taxa including dothideomycetes eurotiomycetes leotiomycetes sordariomycetes rozellomycota and incertae sedis within zygomycotatable 1 bacterial and fungal network properties at different chronosequence agesbacteriaapos positive neg negative.p  0.05 anova and table s4.

moreover the average degree also increased from early chronosequence ages 5 and 11 years to later chronosequence ages 21 and 30 years and .

overall the nodes edges and average degree of fungal networks typically peaked in the middle chronosequence ages.networks in consecutive chronosequence ages were compared to identify overlap- ping nodes and edges.

bacterial communities shifted gradually with overlapping 3-diversity patterns across chronosequence ages while shifts in fungal communities were more distinct among different ages.

finally the complexity of bacterial cooccurrence networks increased with chronosequence age while fungal networks did not show clear age-related trends.

we hypothesize that these contrasting dynamics of bacteria and fungi in the chronosequence result from i higher growth rates for bacteria leading to higher intra-annual variability ii higher tolerance to environmental changes for fungi and iii stronger influence of vegetation on fungal communities.importance both bacteria and fungi play essential roles in ecosystem functions and information about their recovery after extreme disturbances is important for un- derstanding whole-ecosystem development.

this study compares bacterial and fungal cooccur- rence networks and reveals cooccurrences persisting through successional ages.keywords bacteria chronosequence cooccurrence networks disturbance fungi reclaimed mine soils soil microbiotacologists have been studying the succession dynamics of plant communities for more than a century   and the patterns of changes in plant community composition are used as indicators for the restoration of ecosystems .

for example microbial diversity has not shown consistent patterns in glacial chronosequences  and an abundance of bacterial phyla showed different trends along chronosequence ages in two glacier forelands within the same study .

the use of specific controlled reforestation practices   aids in the creation of replicated sites over time with relatively well-controlled ecosystem development in terms of soil properties land- scapes and vegetation .in this study we characterized both the intra-annual variability and long-term recovery in bacterial and fungal components of soil microbiota in a chronosequence of reclaimed mine lands that spans 5 to 30 years postreforestation and includes unmined reference plots.

however along chronosequence ages there were no obvious patterns in the 16s rrna or its copy numbers except that bacterial abundance was significantly lower at 5 years p  0.05 tukey's hsd test and .

overall the monthly shifts in bacterial and fungal abundance were equal to or greater than the shifts across chronosequence ages.

there were no significant interactions between chronosequence age and sampling month for either richness or abundance of either bacteria or fungi.-diversity and taxonomic composition.

bacterial 3-diversity varied significantly within the study year with may and july harboring significantly different communities from those of september and october regardless of chronosequence age p  0.001 anosim with 999 permutations and table s1a.

