individual caging allowed the precise assessment of individual feed intake energy in feed and unused energy remaining in faeces.

the experimental design eliminated competition for feed and reduced behavioural issues affecting feed intake.

thus birds with low fcr that needed less feed per kg gained were the most efficient in converting feed to mass.

body weight gain bwg was calculated as weight gain gstart weight g and feed eaten fe was total amount of feed eaten during the 10 day measurement time period.

in either one or the other case this correlation indicates that birds fed with wheat showed a trade-off between feed consumption and the ability to transform feed into body weight.

such a trade-off did not occur in sorghum-fed chickens suggesting that their efficiency in converting feed to body mass was not compromised by the amount of feed they ate.

open accesssubjects agricultural science bioinformatics microbiologykeywords microbiota gastrointestinal tract chicken wheat sorghum diet caecum energy assimilation feed conversion digestive efficiencyhow to cite this article crisol-martinez et al.

for instance found a number of otus within the caecum and the ileum which were negatively or positively correlated with feed conversion ratio fcr values.

found increased enterobacteria abundance in the ileum consistent with the low feed conversion performance of sorghum-fed chickens.

feed and water were supplied ad libitum throughout the experiment.

samples from all birds were analysed.fcr was calculated as a ratio of feed eaten and weight gained.

gross energy ge was measured in feed and in faeces of each individual bird using a parr isoperibol bomb calorimeter parr instrument company moline il.

apparent metabolisable energy ame in mjkg dry matter was calculated as amediet  gediet x feed eaten x geexcreta x dry excretafeed eatendry diet content.

however contrary to our results the latter studies found that sorghum-fed chickens had either better    or similar feed conversion efficiency  than wheat-fed chickens.

these offer ways in which caecal microbiota are translocated into the intestinal tract thus affecting energy metabolism and performance both directly and indirectly.previous research indicated that chickens showing high ame values tend to show low fcr values because of a low consumption of feed .

