sourdough-type propagation of faba bean flour dynamics of microbial consortia and biochemical implicationsrossana coda  maryam kianjam  erica pontonio  michela verni  raffaella di cagno  kati katina carlo giuseppe rizzello  marco gobbetti a university of helsinki department of food and environmental sciences agnes sjioberginkatu 2 helsinki finland b university of bari aldo moro department of soil plant and food science via amendola 165a 70125 bari italy c faculty of food science and technology university of bozen 39100 bolzano italya r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 9 september 2016received in revised form 28 december 2016accepted 18 february 2017available online 20 february 2017keywords faba bean sourdoughlactic acid bacteriaa b s t r a c t the microbial ecology of faba bean sourdoughs obtained from an italian ita and a finnish fi cultivar belonging respectively to vicia faba major and v. faba minor groups was described by 16s rrna gene pyrosequencing and cul- ture-dependent analysis.

the flours used were obtained from two faba bean cultivars grown for food and feed uses v. faba major named broad bean including culti- vars with large flattened seeds popular in the southern regions of europe and v. faba minor named field bean or horse bean includ- ing cultivars with medium to relatively small and round seeds  .as shown by pcoa which was based on the weighted unifrac dis- tance matrix of the number of otus ita and fi flours and doughs before fermentation were contaminated by metabolically active bacteria most likely representing the outcome of milling procedure.the initial community of the two flours before fermentation was dominated by a metabolically active phylum which likely represented the outcome of environmental contamination.

moreover the residual hulls un- avoidably present in v. faba minor finnish flour strongly affected the microbial diversity and the biochemical characteristics of the mature sourdough compared to the v. faba major italian flour.although further experimental approaches might clarify the mecha- nisms involved in lactic acid bacteria dominance in faba bean sour- dough the results here collected provide information useful for a proper selection of starters and the application of sourdough fermenta- tion recognized as an emerging and promising biotechnology for im- proving nutritional and functional features of faba bean flour.fundingthis research has been developed under the european project bioprot - novel multifunctional plant protein ingredients with bioprocessing fp7-era-net - susfood.fig.

the dynamics of the lactic acid bacteria community and the characteristics of the sourdough-types were monitored throughout 14 days of propagation in order to assess their potential use in bread making.materials and methodsfaba bean flourssix batches of commercial italian faba bean ita vicia faba major harvest year 2014 and six batches of finnish faba bean fi vicia faba minor harvest year 2014 flours obtained from the stone-milling ofthe dehulled seeds by cerealveneta mills san martino di lupari pd italy were pooled on the basis of the country of origin and used in this study.

overall higher microbial di- versity was found in fi than in ita sourdough probably due to the higher microbial contamination related to the hulls surface even though the diversity markedly decreased with increasing propagation steps.the propagation conditions of faba bean sourdoughs chosen in thisstudy were similar to traditional protocols previously used for cereal and cereal-legumes sourdough fermentation  .

before fermentation t0 both faba bean doughs contained a low cell density of yeasts  2.0 log cfug which signifi- cantly p b 0.05 increased after the first 16 h of fermentation ca.3.7 - 0.3 log cfug for fi sourdough.

recently lactic acid bacteria fermentation has been used in combined le- gume-wheat flour sourdough technology providing a large biodiversity to the sourdough microbiota and a better nutritional quality of the legume- wheat bread .in this study the flour obtained from two different faba bean varieties was used in traditional sourdough-type biotechnology employing the backslopping procedure.

compared to ita sourdough the concentration of lac- tic acid of fi sourdough was almost 10 higher.acetic acid was not detectable before the first fermentation  .

a solution of acetonitriletable 1proximal composition of italian vicia faba major and finnish vicia faba minor cv kontu faba bean flours.faba bean floursitalianfinnishdry matter 87.99 - 0.03b89.07 - 0.18afat 1.43 - 0.01a1.28 - 0.04bprotein  n x 5.724.11 - 0.19b25.82 - 0.18atotal carbohydrate 58.51 - 0.68a42.55 - 0.77b starch 44.83 - 0.16a38.18 - 0.70bdietary fiber 9.90 - 0.36b20.97 - 0.15aash 3.52 - 0.00b3.65 - 0.02athe data are the means of three independent experiments - standard deviations n  3.a-b values in the same row with different superscript letters differ significantly p b 0.05.water 6535 vv was used as mobile phase flow 1 mlmin.

2. principal coordinate analysis pcoa based on weighted unifrac analysis of all 16s rna gene sequences of italian and finnish faba bean doughs after mixing and before fermentation ita0 fi0 and sourdoughs after 1 ita1 fi1 2 ita2 fi2 5 ita5 fi5 7 ita7 fi7 and 14 ita14 fi14 days of propagation.bacteria from fi sourdough mostly belonged to p. pentosaceus 32 iso- lates 45.1 leuconostoc spp.

t0 corresponds to doughs before fermentation t1 to doughs after the first fermentation 30 degc for 16 h. after t1 refreshments were carried out daily by mixing 25 of the previously fermented dough with flour and water and incubating at 30 degc for 8 h. t2 t5 t7 and t14 correspond to the sourdoughs analyzed at 2 5 7 and 14 days of propagation.the data are the means of three independent experiments - standard deviations n  3. a-e values in the same row with different superscript letters differ significantly p b 0.05. nd not detected.table 3 oligosaccharides concentration in sourdoughs obtained from italian ita and finnish fi faba bean flours.

generally fermentation of legumes   and faba bean is known to enhance the overall nutritional 0168-1605c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.quality without severe repercussion on its sensory properties   and can be considered an efficient way to increase its use in the food industry.despite this renewed interest other efforts should be done to promote the use of faba bean for products of optimal nutritional value and consum- er acceptability.

compared to the microbial dynamics previously reported for cereal sourdough the absence of key microorganisms like lactobacillus plantarum and saccharomyces cerevisiae at the advanced steps of propa- gation emerged as the main difference however it is not possible to de- fine the exact role of the factors leading to the dominance of certainlactic acid bacteria species upon faba bean sourdough backslopping in comparison with cereal-based matrices.

regarding fi sour- doughs w. cibaria appeared after the first fermentation 7.9 and dis- appeared at t7 22.8 whereas p. pentosaceus was found from t2 11.8 onward 28.4.a total of 146 presumptive lactic acid bacteria were isolated from mrs agar at the highest dilution plates and subjected to rapd-pcr anal- ysis and 16srrna sequencing a and b. isolates identified through culture-dependent methods almost reflected the lactic acid bacteria mi- crobiota retrieved by rna pyrosequencing.

overall the spontaneous fermen- tation of vegetables and fruits includes the succession of hetero- and homo-fermentative lactic acid bacteria with or without yeasts .as shown by the pseudo-heat map depicting bacterial diversity at genera level pediococcus leuconostoc and weissella were already the dominant genera at the second day of propagation while only a low abundance of lactobacillus in fi previously isolated from wheat-legume sourdough and typical of cereal sourdough was observed  .

