special attention should be given to immigrants from bangladesh one of the most arsenic-contaminated regions in the world  because the detrimental effects of arsenic exposure in their homeland may carry over to their communities in the u.s. there are few studies on the long- term health effects of prior low to moderate levels of arsenic exposure among bangladeshi immigrants in the u.s.more studies also need to be done to further investigate the association between high levels of arsenic exposure and various cancers and cvd especially among sas in the u.s. arsenic toxicity has been linked to cvd and cancer among sas in their countries of origin indicating that these risks are likely to apply to sas in the u.s. as well.

more research is needed on the health effects of air pollution specifically pm exposure among at-risk sa occu- pational groups including taxi drivers gas attendants and restaurant workers in the u.s. next steps for future research should include 1 quantifying levels of particulate matter exposure among taxi drivers and other at-risk occupational groups in the u.s 2 gaining a better understanding of the relationship between pmair pollution and inflammation cvd and cancer as well as the contribution of oil fumes among sa at-risk occupational groups 3 assessing the potential of hybrid cars andor air filters as an intervention to decrease pm exposure among taxi drivers and 4 assessing residual risk in immigrants who had cooking stove exposures in their countries of origin.the leading cause of cervical cancer the human pap- illoma virus hpv is another area where research is lacking among u.s. sa populations.

this review explores envi- ronmental exposures common among south asian sa francesca gany1 department of psychiatry and behavioral sciences immigrant health and cancer disparities service memorial sloan kettering cancer center 485 lexington avenue 2nd floor new york ny 10017 usa2 department of medicine memorial sloan kettering cancer center 1275 york avenue new york ny usa3 department of healthcare policy and research weill cornell medical college 1300 york avenue new york ny usa4 department of medicine icahn school of medicineat the mount sinai medical center 1468 madison avenue new york ny usa5 the earth institute columbia university 2910 broadway new york ny usa6 robert wood johnson medical school south asian total health initiative rutgers school of public health rutgers the state university of new jersey 1 robert wood johnson place new brunswick nj usa7 cardiology department queens hospital center 82-68 164th street jamaica new york ny usa8 department of environmental health sciences columbia university 722 w 168th street new york ny usa9 department of population health departmentof environmental medicine new york university school of medicine 550 1st avenue new york ny usa10 the warren alpert medical school the brown human rights asylum clinic bhrac brown university 222 richmond street providence ri usa11 department of medicine weill cornell medical college 1300 york avenue new york ny usasubgroups such as arsenic exposure among bangladeshis and particulate matter air pollution among taxi drivers as well as infections common among sas including human papillomavirus hpv and hepatitis bc infection.

environmental exposures common among south asian sa subgroups such as arsenic expo- sure among bangladeshis and particulate matter air pollution among taxi drivers also pose risks.

the united kingdom may inform research priori- ties to reduce cvd and cancer risk among sas in the u.s. recommended next steps and research priorities represent the culmination of discussions held among researchers and community members throughout the series of south asian health working group meetings the day-long in-person con- vening and the community-academic town halls.methodsfor the literature review a search of ncbi pubmed and scopus databases using the following primary key terms was conducted arsenic or arsenic poisoning or mer- cury or kohl or kajal or hepatitis b or hepatitis c or hepatitis c chronic or hepatitis b chronic or hpv or human papillomavirus or hpv 6 or hpv 18 or particu- late matter or air pollution or pm or human microbi- ome 0r south asian or indian or bangladeshii or pakistani or sri lankan.

however relevantpreliminary findings and research conducted in south asia and non-u.s. sa diasporic countries can inform future stud- ies in the u.s.related to the topic of arsenic recommended next steps include conducting more research on arsenic exposure through hair or nail assessments among u.s. sa immigrant populations.

given that rice is a staple of the sa diet  sas in the u.s. may face an increased risk of excessive arsenic ingestion through consumption of rice and rice products both grown in the u.s. and imported from south asia.arsenic toxicity has been linked to high morbidity and mortality rates in south asia and arsenic-related disease risk factors identified among sas in their countries of ori- gin may apply to sas in the u.s. between 2000 and 2002 a cohort of over 11000 individuals in bangladesh was assessed prospectively through the heals study health effects of arsenic longitudinal study .

it has since been estimated that areas with tube-well placement and arsenic contamination affect as many as 77 million people .although drinking contaminated water is the most com- mon cause for arsenic exposure there have been other identified sources of arsenic toxicity such as eating crops irrigated with contaminated groundwater  .

this study showed a significant hazard ratio hr for chronic-disease mortality in districts where arsenic well water levels were over 150 ugl 1.68 hr where arsenic dose was greaterthan 401 ugday 1.58 hr and where total arsenic levels in urine were over 352 ugg 1.47 hr .

many studies although none conducted among sas in the u.s. have demonstrated a high prevalence of lung cancer among taxi drivers without known additional risk factors such as smoking in a systematic review sas were less likely to smoke in their adopted countries versus their countries of origin  suggesting a possible associa- tion with pm  .

a retrospective study in england showed that among sas hbv incidence was3.1 times higher than among non-sas .

eastern which is common among japanese and other east asians is more inflammatory in nature than the western strain found among bangladeshis .

research on the role of microbiota in aiding cancer preven- tion specifically among sa groups is lacking.cvd and diabetesthe potential association between microbiota and cardiovas- cular disease cvd andor diabetes also warrants further exploration among sas in the u.s. recent research impli- cates the microflora in heart disease and its risk factors par- ticularly metabolic dysfunction .

this review explores the effects of exposure to arsenic and particulate matter as well as other infections common among sas including human papillomavirus hpv and hepatitis bc infection.

a 2008 analysis in bengal found that inorganic arsenic ingestion from rice grains alone 2.32 mgkg body wtday among bengali participants exceeded the who's recom- mended limit of 2.1 mgkg body wt.day .

