the present study focuses on wheat and the effect of wheat cultivarplant age and leaf position on the phyllosphere communities and the co-existence networks formed within these communities among individual species including pathogens.overall 212 otus were identified in the dataset.

in a recent study it was shown that leaf position and age had significant effects on the susceptibility of wheat to a biotrophic pathogen wheat rust the upper leaves being more susceptible and it was suggested that the life strategy of the pathogen was a determining factor as for instance necrotrophic pathogens prefer older tissues   .

the present study not only describes the key fungal species in the wheat phyllosphere but also describes the local within-plant variation in communities over time and the co-occurrence of fungal groups across locations leaf position and cultivars.our study demonstrates the complexity of fungal communities in the phyllosphere and provides valuable insights into the interactions among plant inhabiting organisms including pathogens.conclusionthis report describes the wheat mycobiome and spatiotemporal variation.

  lise n. jorgensen and department of agroecology aarhus university aarhus denmarkedited bydavide bulgarelli university of dundee united kingdomreviewed byguus bakkeren agriculture and agri-food canadacanada munusamy madhaiyantemasek life sciences laboratorysingaporecorrespondence mogens nicolaisen specialty section this article was submitted to plant microbe interactions a section of the journal frontiers in plant sciencereceived 14 june 2017accepted 20 july 2017published 02 august 2017citation sapkota r jorgensen ln and nicolaisen m 2017 spatiotemporalvariation and networks in the mycobiome of the wheat canopy.

in this study we examined the wheat mycobiome by using metabarcoding of the fungal its1 region.

the relative abundance of z. tritici and the yeasts was relatively constant between individual samples suggesting that fast growing fungi rapidly occupy empty space in the phyllosphere.keywords mycobiome wheat zymoseptoria tritici cryptococcus sporobolomyces cultivar pathogen microbiomeintroductionwheat triticum aestivum is essential for global food production and is among the most commonly grown crops.

wheat production yields are highly reduced by a number of fungal leaf pathogens such as zymoseptoria tritici phaeosphaeria nodorum puccinia striiformis and blumeria graminis f. sp.

surprisingly several studies have shown that fungicide treatments only have limited effect on the overall structure of fungal communities in wheat    .to date limited information is available about how phyllosphere microbial communities vary across spatial and temporal scales and how they are affected by host and environmental factors and by agronomic manipulation.

furthermore we were interested in highlighting the interactionsbetween fungal taxa in the phyllosphere particularly in taxa that were interacting with important wheat pathogens.

we investigated this by metabarcoding of the fungal internal transcribed region 1 its1 from samples of leaves from four wheat cultivars grown at two locations in denmark and by taking samples from leaf positions 1 2 and 3 numbered from the head at different growth stages.materials and methodsstudy sites treatments and plant materialthe study sites were located in flakkebjerg and horsens denmark 55.321547 n 11.385 e and 55.8135 n 9.9259 erespectively.

both sites are experimental research fields located approximately 110 km apart.commercial cultivars of wheat hereford jensen mariboss and tabasco  were sown in 2013 in 15 m2 plots at each location and in three replicates in a split- plot design.

scripts used for the analysis will be available upon request.resultsdata characteristicsleaf samples were collected from 24 wheat plots two locations four cultivars and three replicates at different growth stages and from different leaf positions eight plots jensen flakkebjerg gs 69-71 were sampled twice giving a total of 164 leaf samples.

z. tritici was generally more abundant in the later growth stages and on older leaves leaf position 3.discussionthis study is a follow-up of a previous study the first study focused on community differences at species level winter- and spring barley winter wheat rye triticale and oat and found that there is a constant 'sea' of fungi across cereal phyllospheres with a few host specific pathogens and that host genotype is a major driver of microbial communities  .

in our previous study   where we analyzed leaves from position 2 we found major effects of cultivar explaining 29 of the variation in the wheat dataset which was comparable to findings in the present study where we found that cultivar explained 30 of the variation of fungal communities in the leaves from position 2. underlying this observation there were remarkable effects of cultivar on individual taxa including pathogens.

sporobolomyces has been shown to exhibit biocontrol effects against cochliobolus sativus   but it did not have any biocontrol activity against rhizoctonia cerealis in the wheat stem base  .

