5c d.uvb irradiance increases deinococcus citri-d61 root colonization of wt host plants but decreases colonization of plants impaired in the perception of and response to uvbto evaluate the influence of uvb perception and down- stream response on deinococcus root colonization we used wt plants and plants from the newly generated nauvr8-silenced line irchal plants impaired in flavo- noid biosynthesis kessler et al.

we har- vested nine plants from the gate g wash w lytlel locations and three plants from burn b and pah- coon spring p. except for some plants of the wash population all plants were in the elongating stage of growth which marks the transition from vegetative to reproductive growth for this annual plant.

based on these results we infer that n. attenuata does not harbour a seedborne micro- biome and plants recruit microbial communities from the surrounding soil during germination and plant development.native root microbiomes are dominated by actinobacteria deinococcus-thermus and tm7 bacteria phyla and ascomycota fungal phyla irrespective of locationsto investigate the recruitment of the n. attenuata root bacterial communities across native populations of plants we sampled native-grown n. attenuata roots and bulk soil from five different locations at the great basin desert utah usa fig.

fungal community diversity was higher among the samples and location had a more pronounced effect on the community com- position even though ascomycota clearly dominated all root and soil samples.core root bacterial and fungal communities of native- grown n. attenuata rootsto robustly analyse the influence of location on the root microbiome of native-grown n. attenuata we further investigated at a lower taxonomic level which taxa are present in all root samples and whether taxa are unique to locations.

citri d61 root colonization differed significantlyamong the genotypes f332  7.2 p  0.0007 treatment uvb vs. non-uvb f132  4.6 p  0.04 and the interac- tion of both factors genotypestreatment f332  7.4 p  0.0006. thus nauvr8 and nachal probably play additional roles in root bacterial colonization indepen- dent of their mediation of a plant's uvb responses.in summary these results indicate that uvb fluence rates and n. attenuata's responses to uvb radiation that include both perception of and responses to uvb flu- ence are important factors affecting the recruitment of root bacterial communities.discussionplants maintain extensive close relationships with soil microbial communities which can be affected by envi- ronmental and host-related factors but how the host plant and its responses to environmental factors deter- mine root colonization by fungal and bacterial commu- nities remains for most taxa largely unknown.

with uvb supplementation root colonization of deinococcus increased in wild type but decreased in iruvr8 and irchal plants compared to nontreated plants.

6 uvb supplementation significantly increases the root colonization with deinococcus citri-d61 and total phenolics in wt plants while colonization decreases and total phenolics remain unchanged in plants impaired in uvb perception and response.

2013 and in a. thaliana uvb exposureconfers cross-resistance to the fungal necrotrophic pathogen botrytis cinerea through increases in sinapate accumulation a phenolic compound whose biosynthesis is regulated by uvr8 demkura  ballar'e 2012. uvb radiation was also found to change the composition of the culturable bacterial community of field-grown pea- nut leaves jacobs  sundin 2001. although uvb- induced changes in the microbiome of above-ground tissues of plants have been shown the effect of uvb on the root microbiome is unexplored and it remains unknown whether and how recruitment of root bacteria is related to the perception of uvb by uvr8 and its downstream responses that include the elicitation of chs.coyote tobacco nicotiana attenuata germinates from long-lived seed banks in the typically nitrogen-rich soils of the postfire environment lynds  baldwin 1998 preston  baldwin 1999 baldwin 2001. the longevity of its seeds makes this species particularly interesting for the characterization of the seedborne microbiome communities.

to further investigate whether uv-bperception and response influenced root colonization by native deinococcus isolates we conducted a microcosm experiment using a synthetic bacterial community con- sisting of four native strains isolated from the field to test the hypothesis that the plant's response to uvb radiation its perception uvr8 and response chal influence the root colonization.materials and methodssample collectionnicotiana attenuata plants were collected in 2013 from five different locations in the great basin desert utah usa burn n 37.3332 w 113.9388 a.s.l.1337 m pah-coon spring n 37.2381 w 113.8284 a.s.l.

from these results we infer that the plants enrich a core bacterial and fungal community but the site-specific root colonization by fungi is higher than it is for bacteria and as a consequence sampling location had a larger influence on the root fungal com- munities than on the bacterial communities.deinococcus-thermus taxa are enriched inn.

in this work we expanded our analysis to the seedborne microbiome to evaluate whether a core group of microbes is transmitted to the offspring and serves as primary source for root colonization and characterized the root microbiota of n. attenuata plants from different natural populations grown at different locations in their native habitat.

s10 root bacterial colonization by strains a176 e46 and k1 is not influenced by uvb in wt and also not in the plants impaired in uvb perception and responses.table s1 seeds used for characterization of the seed micro- biome by culture-dependent and -independent approaches positive controls used for pcr and results of the culture- dependent approach.table s2 23 of 49 core bacterial otus from n. attenuata signifi- cantly differed among soil and root samples.table s3 bacterial isolates retrieved from roots of nicotiana attenuata.

alpha and beta diver- sities of native root bacterial communities differed significantly between soil and root while location had only a significant effect on the fungal but not the bacterial root com- munities.

differences in the numbers of plants harvested among sites were due to limited availability of plants in the native popu- lations.

the hemizygote iruvr8 x irchal plants showed reductions of 95 in nauvr8 and 75 in nachal transcript accumulation com- pared to those of ev plants fig.

