The dietary treatment resulted in an increase in the relative abundance of predicted genes involved in butyrate synthesis especially genes encoding butyryl-CoA transferase EC 2.8.3.8 and butyrate kinase EC 2.7.2.7 and an associated significant increase in fecal butyrate levels likely deriving from lactate catabolism one of the primary pathways for butyrate production by gut bacteria .

FM-CBAL74 treatment resulted in an increase in the relative abundance of predicted genes involved in butyrate synthesis PICRUSt-predicted metagenomes especially genes encoding butyryl coenzyme A butyryl-CoA transferase EC 2.8.3.8 and butyrate kinase EC 2.7.2.7 see Fig.

.Prodeus A Niborski V Schrezenmeir J Gorelov A Shcherbina ARumyantsev A.

Consistently a significant increase in fecal butyrate levels in children consuming FM-CBAL74 was observed   P  0.05.FIG 3 Fecal butyrate concentration.

.Corsello G Carta M Marinello R Picca M De Marco G Micillo M Ferrara D Vigneri P Cecere G Ferri P Roggero P Bedogni G Mosca F Paparo L Nocerino R Berni Canani R. 2017.

Am J Clin Nutr 82471- 476.Costabile A Kolida S Klinder A Gietl E Bauerlein M Frohberg C Landschu- tze V Gibson GR.

These ef- fects are associated with changes in innate and acquired immunity.IMPORTANCE The use of a fermented milk product containing the heat-killed probiotic strain Lactobacillus paracasei CBAL74 induces changes in the gut microbiota promoting the development of butyrate producers.

We previously demonstrated that a fermented cow's milk product with heat-killed Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 FM-CBAL74 efficiently protects schooled children against respiratory and gastrointestinal tract infections and that this protective effect is associated with a significant stimulation of innate and acquired immunity .In order to assess the possible association of these effects with the structure of the gut microbiota we designed this study to determine the effects of FM-CBAL74 treat- ment on gut microbiota composition and butyrate production.RESULTSStudy subjects.

S4C in the supplemental material but only Bac12 p  0.67 P  0.042 was positively correlated with a-defensin.FM-CBAL74 treatment promotes butyrate production in the gut.

Box plots show the abundance of fecal butyrate in the study population at baseline t0 and after 3 months of treatment t3 with fermented milk MILK and placebo PL.

