n  2.kanna k. gnanalingham1 school of health sciences faculty of biology medicine and health the university of manchester manchester uk2 manchester academic health sciences centre mahsc the university of manchester manchester uk3 department of neurosurgery manchester centre for clinical neurosciences salford royal nhs foundation trust stott lane salford m6 8hd ukconclusions pa may be associated with an abnormal sphe- noid sinus microbiota that is similar to that seen in patients with sphenoid sinusitis.keywords pituitary apoplexy  sphenoid sinus  pituitary adenoma  microbiotaintroductionpituitary apoplexy pa is an acute clinical syndrome sec- ondary to haemorrhage andor infarction of a pituitary ade- noma .

pituitary 2017 20619-623 doi 10.1007s11102-017-0823-9sphenoid sinus microbiota in pituitary apoplexy a preliminary studygavin j. humphreys1  mueez waqar23  andrew j. mcbain1  kanna k. gnanalingham23published online 29 august 2017c the authors 2017. this article is an open access publicationabstractpurpose there is a high incidence of abnormal sphenoid sinus changes in patients with pituitary apoplexy pa. their pathophysiology is currently unexplored and may reflect an inflammatory or infective process.

further work is warranted in a larger patient cohort utilizing next generation sequencing plat- forms to achieve better microbiota profiling together with histo- logical analyses of explanted sphenoid sinus and pituitary tissue.conclusionin this preliminary study we characterised the sphenoid sinus mucosal microbiota in patients with pa and compared findings to a control group comprising of surgically treated nfpas.

given the proximity of the sphenoid sinus to the pituitary gland it is tempting to speculate an infective aetiology for some patients with pa.1 3pituitary 2017 20619-623on the other hand it must be noted that in this preliminary study the patients undergoing pituitary surgery for pa did not exhibit preoperative evidence of sinusitis.

pituitary 73157-163. doiliu jk couldwell wt 2006 pituitary apoplexy in the magnetic resonance imaging era clinical significance of sphenoid sinus mucosal thickening.

in contrast atypical respiratory pathogens are rarely reported in the context of1 3table 1 sphenoid sinus microbiota in patients with pa a1-a5 and nfpas n1-n5patient demographic clinical featuresimaginghistologymanagementmicrobiologysurgeryoncology hormone replacement gram positivegram negativea124 mconfusion gcs 14 low sodiummixed signal on t1 mri with ssmtnull cell with necrosistsssteroids thyroxinelactococcus sp.leuconostoc citreumenterobacter sp.enterobacter aerogenesa264 fasymptomaticcystic high signal on t1and t2 mrilhfsh with haemor- rhagetss  xrtsteroids thyroxineleuconostoc citreumleuconostoc fallaxstenotrophomonas malt- ophiliaa358 mheadache bitemporal hemianopiaa423 fheadache irregular mensescystic mixed highlow signal on t1 and t2cystic high signal lesion on t1 low signal on t2lhfshtsssteroidslactococcus sp.leuconostoc citreumtsh with haemorrhagetssnilbacillus sp.corynebacterium fastid- iosumlactobacillus casei lactobacillus rhamnosus staphylococcus epider-midisacinetobacter sp.enterobacter sp.enterobacter sp.a561 fheadache reduced left sided visual acuityhigh signal on t1 and t2 with ssmtlhfsh with haemor- rhagetss  xrtsteroids thyroxine sex hormones ddavpcorynebacterium pro- pinquumcorynebacterium pseu- dodiphthereticumstaphylococcus sp.escherichia colin165 mhypo-pituitarismiso-signal on t1 and t2lhfshtsssteroids thyroxinegrowth hormonestreptococcus sp.lactobacillus delbrueckiacinetobacter junii prevotella oralis prevotella salivaen271 fbitemporal hemianopiaiso-signal on t1 mixedsignal on t2null celltss  xrtnilcorynebacterium pseu- dodiphthereticumcorynebacterium simulansstaphylococcus epider- midisstaphylococcus lugdun- ensisacinetobacter junii prevotella sp.n354 fleft homonymous hemia- nopiaiso-signal on t1 and t2lhfshtssnilcorynebacterium krop-penstedtii lactobacillus casei lactobacillus rhamnosusn441 mbitemporal hemianopialow signal on t1iso-signal on t2 with ssmtlhfsh tshtsssteroids thyroxine growth  sex hormonesstreptococcus pneumo- niaen548 fasymptomaticlow signal on t1 mixedsignal on t2null celltssnilstaphylococcus epider- midisstenotrophomonas malt- ophiliarefers to the predominant cell population found during histopathological assessmentm male f female ssmt sphenoid sinus mucosal thickness gcs glasgow coma scale tss trans-sphenoidal surgery xrt radiotherapy622pituitary 2017 20619-623fig.

in this preliminary study we characterised the microbiota of sphenoid sinus mucosa in patients with pa and compared findings to a control group of surgically treated non-functioning pituitary adenomas nfpas.methods in this prospective observational study of patients undergoing trans-sphenoidal surgery for pa or nfpa sphe- noid sinus mucosal specimens were microbiologically pro- filed through pcr-cloning of the 16s rrna gene.results ten patients five with pa and five with nfpas with a mean age of 51 years range 23-71 were included.

in a recent study we noted that sphenoid sinus mucosal thickening ssmt was present in 62 of pa patients compared to just 6 of a con- trol group of non-functioning pituitary adenomas nfpas .

mri revealed a pituitary lesion with evidence of bleed and sphenoid sinus mucosal thickening green arrows.

the patient with nfpa c and d case n3 table  was a 54 year old female who presented with a homonymous hemianopia.mri revealed a pituitary lesion abutting the optic chiasm and with no evidence of sphenoid sinus mucosal thickening anda relatively empty sinus white arrowsthe heathy upper airways.

clin endo- crinol 7419-20. doi623waqar m mccreary r kearney t karabatsou k gnanalingham kk 2017 sphenoid sinus mucosal thickening in the acute phase of pituitary apoplexy.

j neurosurg 1046892-898arita k kurisu k tominaga a sugiyama k ikawa f yoshioka h sumida m kanou y yajin k ogawa r 2001 thickening of sphenoid sinus mucosa during the acute stage of pituitary apoplexy.

evidence of pre- existing haemorrhage within the pituitary adenoma.subclinical pa defined as radiological and histo- pathological evidence of infarction or haemorrhage without accompanying symptomatology.nfpa surgically treated control group with no evi- dence of pituitary apoplexy clinically radiologically or on histopathology.tissue collectionsphenoid sinus mucosal samples were collected during the approach for endoscopic trans-sphenoidal surgery for the treatment of pa or nfpas as described previously .

differences in the sphenoid sinus microbiota of the pa and nfpa groups were observed.

pa is presumed to be a sponta- neous vascular event and risk factors include anticoagulant therapy major surgery dopamine agonist therapy pregnancy and radiation therapy .we and others have observed a high incidence of abnor- mal sphenoid sinus changes in pa .

