The current study extends the previ- ously identified association of Bacteroides-dominated fecal microbiome profile with higher likelihoods of bron- chiolitis by demonstrating the functional potential of the gut microbiome in infants.Sphingolipids are a class of complex lipids contain- ing a backbone of sphingoid bases.

bronchiolitis per se or treatments for bronchiolitis result in perturbation of the fecal microbiome--is also possible these priorstudies coupled with our findings collectively sug- gest that Bacteroides-dominant microbiome in the gut through their sphingolipid production may contribute to inappropriate immune responses and bronchioli- tis pathogenesis in infants.

BMC Res Notes 2017 10325DOI 10.1186s13104-017-2659-9BMC Research NotesSphingolipid metabolism potentialin fecal microbiome and bronchiolitis in infants a case-control studyKohei Hasegawa1 Christopher J. Stewart2 Jonathan M. Mansbach3 Rachel W. Linnemann4 Nadim J. Ajami2 Joseph F. Petrosino2 and Carlos A. Camargo1IntroductionBronchiolitis is a common acute respiratory infection and the leading cause of hospitalizations in US infants  .

Although bronchiolitis has been considered virus- induced inflammation of small airways  recent stud- ies demonstrate that the pathobiology involves complex interrelations among respiratory viruses host immune response and human microbiome -.

Emergingevidence also indicates the existence of gut-lung axis in which the gut microbiome conditions immunologic responses in the lungs to environmental challenges e.g.

Indeed we have previously demon- strated in a case-control study of infants hospitalized for bronchiolitis and healthy controls  that the tax- onomy profiles of the fecal microbiome were associated with the likelihood of bronchiolitis--e.g.

To address this knowledge gap we determined the predicted function of fecal microbiome in infants with bronchiolitis and healthy infants.Main textMethodsThis study was a secondary analysis of the data from a case-control study of infants hospitalized for bronchi- olitis and healthy controls.

1 Rarefaction curves for bacterial operational taxonomic units ofthe fecal microbiome.

The fecal microbiome were dominated by four genera Escherichia 22 Bifidobacterium 19 Entero- bacter 15 and Bacteroides 13.

The characteristics of the fecal microbiome differed between cases and con- trols Table .

