curious- ly a genetic similarity below 80 was observed between the st277 clone detected from d. viduata and those frequently obtained from nosocomial-acquired isolates .due to the clonal pattern observed among p. aeruginosa isolates from migratory birds only 3 isolates psa-1 psa-8 and psa-9 were selectedtable 1microbiological characterization of carbapenem-resistant p. aeruginosa st277 isolates recovered from the microbiota of d. viduata.isolates bird identification antimicrobial agents mglresistance determinantscro  ceftriaxone caz  ceftazidime fep  cefepime atm  aztreonam ptz  piperacillintazobactam ipm  imipenem mem  meropenem gen  gentamicin amk  amikacin tob  tobramycin cip  ciprofloxacin  lev  levofloxacin and pmb  polymyxin b.for the qrt-pcr analysis.

among them 9 carbapenem-resistant p. aeruginosa isolates psa-1 to psa-9 were recovered from 7 d. viduata specimens 17.5. in contrast although no carbapenem-resistant p. aeruginosa isolates had been recovered from the microbiota of the resident swans n  30 control group these birds showed both choanal and cloacal colonization by pseudomonas otitidis n  4 data not shown.seven isolates psa-1 to psa-7 were screened as carbapenemase producers by blue-carba test and confirmed to carry blaspm-1.

while ties-04900  showed 90 similarity with 48-1997a the first isolate detected as spm-1 producer recently named as pa1088  the clone recovered from d. viduata shared only 65 similarity with 6 isolates including pa1088 that had their whole-genome recently characterized .the spm-1-producing p. aeruginosa st277 isolates recovered from migratory birds shared the same genetic determinants of resistance pre- viously described for nosocomial-acquired isolates.

the spm-1-producing isolates showed high mics for all b-lactams fluoroquinolones and aminoglycosides being susceptible only to polymyxin b. interestingly all isolates showed the same pfge pattern and belonged to st277.

aeruginosa isolates psa-2 and psa-1 isolates respectively.

in contrast to what was ob- served for the spm-1 isolate ties-04900 recovered from sao paulo urban river the isolates recovered from migratory birds did not show a significant genetic similarity with clinical isolates.

although these isolates did not show a high genetic similarity with the main spm-1-produging p. aeruginosa clone found among clinical isolates in brazil they also belonged to the st277 highly suggesting a common an- cestor.

fehlberg  patricia locosque ramos  joao batista da cruz  ana cristina gales a laboratorio alerta division of infectious diseases department of internal medicine escola paulista de medicinauniversidade federal de sao paulo-unifesp sao paulo brazilb departamento de pesquisas aplicadas fundacao parque zoologico de sao paulo sao paulo sp brazilc fundacao parque zoologico de sao paulo-fpzsp sao paulo brazila r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 9 july 2017received in revised form 1 november 2017accepted 2 november 2017available online 10 november 2017keywords antimicrobial resistance carbapenemaseenvironmental microbiologydendrocygna viduataa b s t r a c t the production of sao paulo metallo-b-lactamase spm-1 is the most common carbapenem resistance mechanism detected among multidrug-resistant pseudomonas aeruginosa clinical isolates in brazil.

dissemination of spm-1-producing p. aeruginosa has been restricted to the nosocomial settings with sporadic reports of environmental isolates due to contamination by hospital sewage.

three hundred gram-negative bacilli were recovered from cloacal and choanal swabs of dendrocygna viduata during a surveillance study for detection of carbapenem-resistant isolates.

all isolates were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry.

nine imipenem-resistant p. aeruginosa isolates were recovered with 7 of them carrying blaspm-1.

additional resistance genes rmtd-1 blaoxa-56 aaca4 and aac6'-ib-cr were also detected in all 9 isolates.

overexpression of mexxy-oprm and mexab- oprm was observed in those isolates that did not harbor blaspm-1.

however the transoceanic migration between both continents is still unknown  .herein we report the detection and molecular characterization of spm-1-producing p. aeruginosa st277 clone recovered from microbiota of migratory birds in brazil.material and methodsbacterial isolates selectiona surveillance study of mdr gram-negative bacilli was performed in white-faced whistling-duck dendrocygna viduata specimens between july and august of 2012 in the sao paulo zoo during their migratoryroute of south to northeast of brazil .

