there was no difference between the contraction frequencies of polyps incubated in the 24 h and the 48 h extracts p  0.80. since the extracts were prepared using bacteria cultures from tissue homogenates of control polyps we assumed to have retained the natural microbiota com- position and abundance as well as the potential bacterial interactions normally occurring among undisturbed microbiota.

gf polyps recolonized with this microbiota referred to as conventionalized showed significantly higher contraction frequency compared to gf polyps fig.

finally our work highlights the importance of symbiotic microbiota in maintaining host homeostasis and supports the idea that the interaction between microbiota and neurons is truly bi-directional.

in agreement with this studies in mice have demon- strated excitatory effects of the gut microbiota on the enteric nervous system while in zebrafish it has been shown that the enteric nervous system acting through its control over gut motility may influence the composi- tion of the gut microbiota.although there is a strong correlation between the motor activity of the gastrointestinal tract and the micro-bial assemblage in the gut of humans and vertebrate models it is still unclear whether dysmotility is cause orconsequence of an altered microbiota composition-.

these contractions appeared in a regular temporal pattern with an average interval of 7.32 - 0.14 min and 75 of con- secutive contractions occurred within 10 min-interval.to study the impact of the microbiota on spontaneous contractile behaviour we measured the contraction fre- quency in germ-free gf animals which were obtained by treating h. vulgaris polyps with an antibiotic cocktail using a regime known to completely remove associated bacteria.

to assess causality between the pres- ence of microbiota and contraction frequency gf polyps were recolonized with hydra commensal bacteria and their contraction frequency was measured.

or with natural hydra microbiota convent.. b contraction frequencies of control replicates rep  8 n  84 gf rep  8 n  79 and monocolonized polyps.

80.9 - 4.6 rep 6 n  62 gf 57.0 - 4.4 rep 6n  76 anova f3228 33.8 p  0.001. control rep 6 n  46. d workflow used to obtain the microbiota supernatant extracts m.ext.. tissue homogenates from control polyps were plated on r2a agar and grownfor three days.

e contraction frequency of gf polyps incubated in both microbiota extracts is higher than that ofgf animals incubated in hydra medium alone m.ext.24 h 86.6 - 3.4 rep 5 n  49 m.ext.48 h 87.4 - 3.4 rep 6 n  54 gf 58.6 - 2.6 rep 12 n  110 anova f3351 73.56 p  0.001. control rep 12n  153.the role of each member individually.

after 17 days in the antibiotic cocktail the animals were transferred to sterile hydra medium that was further replaced every 48 hours until the behavioural tests were performed days 28-31. the gf status of the polyps was tested twice per week starting at day 19-20 by plating an antibiotic-treated macerated polyp from every replicate produced on r2a agar which supports growth of hydra microbiota.

gf polyps were incubated in 20x diluted microbiota extracts overnight 16 hours before behavioural tests were performed.behavioural tests.

likewise there was no difference in the contractile capacity of gf and control polyps since the changes in the polyps' shape between a maximum stretched and the next full contraction states ds fig.

approximately 5 x 105 cells based on od600 quantification as previously described of each bacterial strain were added sep- arately to 50 ml sterile hydra medium containing 20-30 gf polyps on day 20. likewise gf polyps were recolo- nized with a mixture of the five main colonizers in equal proportions 5 x 105 cells strain.

in humans disruption of the contraction pattern leads to gastrointestinal conditions which are also associated with gut microbiota dysbiosis.

in humans disruption of the icc network is associated with several gas- trointestinal motility disorders including inflammatory bowel conditions chronic constipation and intestine pseudo-obstruction-.in addition to the fundamental role of pacemakers in gut motility increasing evidence suggests that the gut microbiota contributes to the regulation of the contractile activity.

