using this division system we observed that among all the samples combined cstiii l. iners 41.14 was the most abundant followed by csti l. crispatus 29.75 cstii l. gasseri 12.66 cstv l. jensenii 12.02 cstiiiv l. iners and l. jensenii 1.9 streptococcus anginosus 1.26 cst lactobacillus delbrueckii and lactobacillus helveticus 1.33 and cstiv mixed anaerobes 0.63. these assignments wereconfirmed by repeating the pcoa analyses with samples assigned to csts where as shown in figure 5 the cst groups clearly cluster together in the 3d-plots.cst categorization of the samples confirmed that vaginal microbiota of women at 20-22 weeks who were resampled at 26-28 weeks continued to be dominated by the same species of lactobacillus with one exception where the woman's cst assignments changed between 20-22 and 26-28 weeks.

overall using both statistical methods there appears to be a link between csti--l. crispatus and l. gasseri and health.relationship between cst and vaginal phit is well-established that vaginal ph varies in relation to health with a ph of 3-4.5 considered a signature of a healthy vaginal environment and variations upwards a sign of an imbalanced vaginal environment e.g.

416. doi verstraelen h. verhelst r. claeys g. de backer e. temmerman m. and vaneechoutte m. 2009. longitudinal analysis of the vaginal microflora in pregnancy suggests that l. crispatus promotes the stability of the normal vaginal microflora and that l. gasseri andor l. iners are more conducive to the occurrence of abnormal vaginal microflora.

samples assigned as csti l. crispatus had an average ph of 3.83 with one-way anova analysis revealing that this was significantly lower than samples assigned as cstii l. gasseri and cstv l. jensenii which had mean ph values of 4.38 and 4.19 respectively p  0.05. one- way anova analysis also revealed that the mean ph of cstii samples l. gasseri was significantly higher than that of cstiii l. iners at 4.38 and 4.03 respectively p  0.05.relationship between outcome and phwhile we see that the mean ph is always lower in the groups that ultimately delivered at term compared to the correspondingpreterm groups figure 7b 20-22 weeks term  3.97 preterm 4.06 26-28 weeks term  4.06 preterm  4.2 this observation was not found to be statistically significant when we performed anova analysis but may be confirmed with larger sample cohorts.metabolic profiling of our cohortas outlined above we collected parallel samples for microbiota and metabolite data from the same patients under identical conditions.

in parallel we also set out to assess the metabolite profile and vaginal fluid ph of these patients in the same samples.collection of samplesfollowing written informed consent clinical research staff obtained two high vaginal swab hvs samples from the posterior vaginal fornix with dry polystyrene dacron swabsdeltalab eurotubo 300263 fisher scientific uk from each woman after the passage of a sterile vaginal cusco's speculum.

however when the vaginal ph was analyzed in relation to cst we observed clearly significant differences between csti and other csts particularly cstv- dominated samples ph 3.8 vs. 4.2. a potential mechanism for this difference might be the increase in lactate in samples dominated by csti figure 6 consistent with several studies indicating that l. crispatus may decrease vaginal ph in vivo by producing high amounts of lactate from glycogen deposits in the vaginal ecosystem linhares et al.

2017 and a much more stringent alternative test based on the method of laud and dane 2014. in terms of data we observed a greater proportion 2-fold of csti l. crispatus dominated microbiota present in the term than the preterm groups at 20-22 weeks 40.32 vs. 16.66 respectively fisher's exact test p  0.0002 and a slightly higher proportion in the 26-28 weeks group 20.69 vs. 16.66 respectively p  0.03 figure 6. conversely the proportion of patients' vaginal samples that were categorized as cstv l. jensenii dominant was more than 2-fold lower in the term than preterm groups at 20-22 9.68 and 22.22 respectivelyp  0.0002 and 26-28 weeks groups 10.34 and 25 respectivelyp  0.03. also at 26-28 weeks none of the preterm patientsamples were dominated by cstii l. gasseri in contrast to 28 of term patients p  0.0001. when the laud and dane method was used these data were supported at 26-28 weeks with the lack of cstii in the patients in the preterm group p  0.03. also there was a trend toward a higher proportion of csti in the term women compared to their preterm counterparts p  0.06 again in support of our observations above.

2015 the samples from our study population fell into the described csts with the highest abundance of cstiii l. iners 41.14 and csti l. crispatus 29.75.our findings suggest that l. crispatus and potentially l. gasseri might be associated with pregnancies that progress to term and may be health promoting although we acknowledge that larger sample sizes would ideally be needed based on the data gathered here.

in addition a third hvs was sent for routine clinical microbiological culture and sensitivity tests for bv and urinary tract infections.during vaginal fluid sample collection the vaginal ph was also determined from a sample of vaginal discharge obtained by a dry swab which was then smeared on a narrow range ph paper ph-fix macherey-nagel.dna extractionswabs were rinsed in 400 ul of pbs sigma and underwent vortex mixing for 5 min.

2014. information on l. gasseri is more limited and its potential role in the vaginal microbiota in relation to ptb is unclear at present with suggestions that it is more prevalent in white populations and associated with a more diverse vaginal microbiota verstraelen et al.

it is envisaged that in subsequent studies of sufficiently- powered larger sample sizes we will explore our observations in unselected populations of women including those deemed to be at low risk of ptb.in conclusion our data present a picture of the vaginal microbiota that tentatively agrees with the potentially beneficial presence of an l. crispatusgasseri-dominated microbiota cstiii over other lactobacilli particularly the potentially detrimental l. jensenii cstv.

indeed when we analyzed metabolite levels in relation to cst designation we observed significantly higher succinate levels in microbiota dominated by l. crispatus csti and l. gasseri cstii compared to l. jensenii cstv.

this pilot study prospectively examined the differences in vaginal microbiota and metabolite profiles of women who delivered prematurely compared to their term counterparts in a cohort of asymptomatic studied at 20-22 n  80 and 26-28 weeks n  41 and symptomatic women studied at 24-36 weeks n  37. using 16s rrna sequencing the vaginal microbiota from cervicovaginal fluid samples was characterized into five community state types cst dominated by lactobacillus spp.

this is because it is not the mere presence or distribution of the vaginal microflora but also their interactions with the host vaginal mucosal surface resulting in metabolic by-products that can provide useful functional insight into the pathophysiology of spontaneous ptb as well as assist in identifying women at greatest risk.materials and methodsthese pilot prospective cohort studies were approved by the yorkshire  humber sheffield committee of the national research ethics service rec number 13yh0167.subject recruitment microbiota and metabolome samplesthe study participants were recruited via the antenatal clinics and the labor ward assessment unit of the jessop wing maternity hospital sheffield uk.we recruited a cohort of pregnant women comprising those presenting for antenatal care with no symptoms of pretermlabor asymptomatic n  121 samples i.e.

thirdly we determined if insight could be gleaned from vaginal microbial and metabolitefigure 9  a normalized metabolite data for lactate upper and succinate lower at 26-28 weeks and 20-22 weeks au arbitrary units p  0.05 p  0.01p  0.001 p  0.0001. b pcoa 3d plot of cst with respect to metabolite levels generated using metaboanalyst software.profiles of pregnant women in mid-trimester regarding subsequent ptb.in relation to the microbiota it has been established that the vaginal microbiota is relatively simple i.e.

