at the lower taxonomic level the separation be- tween the yw and wild founders conditions was slightly less defined with yw parents flies samples being similar to the wild founders flies samples but statistically significantly different than the yw progeny food samples b. the tendency however remained similar to what was observed for the bacterial orders and samples tended to be less heterogeneous across the experimental levels see table in b for p- values.

such factors include the experimental repeat replicate experiments a and b the nature of the samples fly samples and diet samples as well as the experimental level wild founders yw parents or yw progeny.

frequency of represented bacterial orders and families left and right panels respectively in each sample corresponding to the wild founder males a flies and b diet the yw parents c flies and the yw progeny d flies and e diet experimental levels.

for subsequent experiments we therefore used a yeastsucrose diet containing a low dose 2.5 mll as compared to4 mll in our regular fly diet of propionic acid as preservative ysexp diet.bacterial communities in the flies and in their diet are similarto study the relationship between bacterial communities associated with flies and with their nutritive substrate we used the wild-derived drosophila population described above as a natural microbiota pro- vider for a detailed description of the experimental protocol see material and methods section 2.3. the experiment was performed in duplicate as described in the scheme on .founder males were placed in cages for four days to seed the ysexp diet with the commensal bacteria they carried.

significant p- values  0.05 are shown in blue.each condition were indeed decreased through the experimental levels a. all the yw conditions yw parents flies and yw progeny flies and food showed a statistically significantly decreased dissimilarity between samples compared to the wild founders conditions see table in a for p-values.

we therefore designed a diet deprived of moldex and containing a reduced amount of propionic acid for our study in order to sustain diversity of the fly microbiota.as shown by the 16s-based profiling of their associated communitywhen kept in the laboratory on our diet designed to favor bacterial diversity ys- diet our wild-derived fly population indeed harbored a much more complex community than that of the yw stock even if the proportions were not strictly maintained almost all bacterial taxa present in the wild founder males were transferred to the diet and to the yw flies.

in addition for both taxonomic levels the dissimilarity among the wild founders food samples was greater than those of wild founders flies samples.discussion  conclusionsin order to determine if our reference yellow white stock could serve as a microbiota-provider we first analyzed the composition of the bacterial community associated with this fly population and found it to be poorly diverse.

after 4 days fly and diet samples were retrieved from the cage and treated separately on one hand 4 replicate groups of 10 flies were crushed in 500 ml sterile pbs and on the other hand for each cage 3 replicates of 250 mg of microbes-seeded diet were crushed in 1 ml of sterile pbs.

since the rhodospirillales and enterobacteriales orders are re- presented each by a unique family in this study it is unsurprising thatthe predominant bacterial families in the yw progeny flies and diet samples were acetobacteraceae and enterobacteraceae d and e right panels.although the three predominant orders remained the same namely enterobacteriales lactobacillales and rhodospirillales the profile of the wild-derived bacterial community was slightly modified across samples through the experiment .

given its lifestyle and transmission mode it is not sur- prising that wolbachia is only found in the initial wild-derived fly samples and not in subsequent diet samples.

indeed even if the re- presentative genera tend to vary across studies and populations these higher taxonomic levels are almost always present  .there was no significant distinction in the composition of thecommunities between the fly and the diet samples no bacterial taxa were more or singularly represented in one type of samples.

this was further illustrated on the clustering representation based on the bray-curtis indexes calculated between samples the yw samples tended to cluster together while the wild founders samples were more scattered across the trees see a and b for the bacterial orders and families respectively.

to this end we established the profile of the bacterial communities asso- ciated with flies and with their diet and observed that the flies did not seem to actively select for or against specific bacterial orders or fa- milies.

all experimental flies were kept in in- cubators at 25 degc with a 12 h12 h lightdark cycle.generation of axenic drosophila stocksto generate axenic flies eggs were collected overnight and treated in sterile conditions with successive 2 min baths of bleach and 70 ethanol.

indeed compared to that of flies reared on the ys- diet the microbial diversity associated with flies fed a diet containing both propionic acid and moldex was greatly reduced as visually indicated by the low number and uniform shapes of the colonies growing on the plates.

