this supports previous studies demon- strating that ad patients do not share a single dominant s. aureus clone 11 26-28. the variation in the clonal s. aureus clades colonizing ad patients raises the possibility that this heterogeneity may contribute to the differential course andor therapeutic responses of ad patients.to confirm our strain tracking results we used a complementary approach in which snvs were identified in the s. aureus core genome 1.9 mbp shared between all sequenced s. aureus.

d in principal component pc analysis clades a20 a29 and a30 drive separation between s. epidermidis-predominant ad patients and healthy adults.strains elicit differential cutaneous immune responses in a murine modelwhereas s. aureus has been tightly linked with ad it is still debated whether s. aureus is a cause or effect that is whether s. aureus can elicit andor worsen ad skin disease or is a bystander that flourishes with increased access to extracellular matrix or other products of inflamma- tion in eczematous skin 36 37. by observing that individual strains ofs.

on the basis of standard sensitivity testing methods and whole-genome sequencing analysis five of the six s. aureus isolates from the more severe ad pa- tients were methicillin-sensitive s. aureus mssa consistent with high- er incidences of mssa than methicillin-resistant s. aureus mrsa cultivated from ad patient skin 29-31.comparative genomic analysis of these six s. aureus strains revealed extensive heterogeneity in the gene content as predicted on the basis of the initial mapping of the shotgun metagenomics sequences to disparate phylogenetic clades.

no claim to original u.s. government worksintroductionatopic dermatitis ad eczema is a common inflammatory skin dis- order in industrialized countries affecting 10 to 30 of children 1. patients with ad suffer from chronic relapsing intensely itchy and inflamed skin lesions and have an increased likelihood of developing asthma andor hay fever 2. ad is a complex multifactorial disease in which epidermal barrier impairment type 2 immunity and skin mi- crobes are each thought to potentially play a causative role 1. more than 30 susceptibility loci have been associated with ad including mu- tations in the gene encoding the skin barrier protein filaggrin flg 3 and genes linked to the immune system 4.in addition to host genetic susceptibility the relationship between ad and skin bacteria is well recognized clinically.

our findings demonstrate that ad skin flares in patients with more severe disease are tightly linked with clonal s. aureus isolates.in addition to characterizing strain communities during the course of ad we found that less severe ad patients were colonized with more methicillin-resistant strains whereas the more severe ad patients were primarily colonized with methicillin-sensitive strains.

additional investigations of these microbiome phenotypic differences may improve the understand- ing of ad pathogenesis and lead to more targeted therapeutics including the potential use of commensals to protect against s. aureus 44. birth cohort studies may address whether these patients acquired bacterial strains from family members andor environmental sources as part of microbial inheritance 45. testing of s. aureus strains in gnotobiotic mice similar to bacteroides gut commensal studies may functionally ad- dress whether colonization by clonal s. aureus occurs through limited ex- posure or colonization resistance 46.using strains isolated from the skin of ad flares and a healthy con- trol as well as a known laboratory strain we examined the potential biological differences between staphylococcal strains.

aureus relative abundances based on sequencing was variable 3 of 11 patients had no s. aureus on their skin and 3 of 11 patients had relative abundances of s. aureus on their skin exceeding 50 similar to prior studies of s. aureus relative abundances on ad skin 6 24 25. to compare these metagenomic results with more traditional studieswe cultured bacteria from skin and nares swabs collected concurrently with genomic samples.

we individually tested 10 phylogenetically distinct s. aureus isolates 6 s. aureus isolates cultivated directly from the flared skin of patients with more severe flares 2 s. aureus isolates from the skin of the less severe patient ad07's flare time point 1 s. aureus isolate from a healthy control and 1 common pathogenic s. aureus usa300 fpr3757 isolate high- lighted in red in fig.

in addition to the various genetic susceptibility loci for ad deeper investigation into the skin microbiome could provide a better understanding of the microbial heterogeneity of ad and its potential contributions to disease.although there have been many efforts to identify bacteria in ad skin studies have generally relied on methods that do not distinguish microbes beyond the species level or can misclassify genomically distinct clones 14 15. here we combined shotgun metagenomic sequencing of clinical samples with whole-genome sequencing of patient-derived iso- lates to investigate the microbial communities of ad skin down to the strain- and snv-level resolution.

in the con- text of prior studies demonstrating cutaneous immunologic responses to skin commensals 38 39 and exacerbation of eczematous skin in ad mouse models by s. aureus 38 39 49 50 our findings demonstrate that staphylococcal strains may play an important role in ad disease progression in a strain-specific manner.here we used shotgun metagenomic sequencing to examine strain- level microbial compositions of ad skin coupled with whole-genome sequencing of patient isolates.

patients with ad are often treated with varying combinations of antimicrobial approaches for example antibiotics and dilute bleach baths and anti-inflammatory or immunosuppressive medications 5. the efficacy of these antimicro- bial treatments is associated with decreases in staphylococcal relative abundances 6 7. staphylococcus aureus commonly colonizes ad skin and has been studied using colony-counting sequencing typing methods for example pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and spa s. aureus pro- tein a typing of selected cultivated isolates 8-11 and more recently amplicon-based marker gene sequencing of the 16s ribosomal rna gene 6 7 12 13. however sequence typing and amplicon sequencing1microbial genomics section national human genome research institute national institutes of health nih bethesda md 20892 usa.

specifically more severe ad flare patients had relative abundances of 34 - 8.7 s. aureus with 7.4 - 4.2 s. epidermidis and less severe ad flare patients had relative abundances of 3.8 - 1.7 s. aureus with 13 - 3.9 s. epidermidis averaged across all sites during flare.

aureus strains in ad demonstrate monoclonality although the differential association of s. aureus and s. epidermidis with ad severity defined an intriguing feature of disease heterogeneity the underlying strain communities of these species during the disease course remained unknown.

with a targeted search enterotoxin genes previously shown to exacerbate ad 32 were differentially present in the six ad patient strains of s. aureus variable presence of toxin genes isa trend con- sistent across s. aureus genomes 33. the five genes in the carotenoid biosynthesis pathway were present in all genomes but ad01.f1 thisisolate is the most closely related to strain mshr1132 that was recently reclassified as s. argenteus and can be visually distinguished by its white pigment versus yellow pigment 34. finally variability of genes in the b-lactam resistance family including the mec cassette was consistent with our previous result that only isolate ad11.e17 was an mrsa.

overall association of s. aureus strains isolated from moresevere ad flare patients to wild-type mice without prior barrier disrup- tion induced immune responses in the skin that were significantly greater than those induced with s. epidermidis or s. aureus isolates from less severe ad flare patients or controls.

