in patients with ad s. aureus isolates from patients that demonstrated corticosteroid resistance exhibited a greater ability to produce superantigens than isolates from corticosteroid-responsive ad or the general population .staphylococcal biofilms in ad skinepithelial surfaces are constitutively colonized by bacteria which commonly exist in the form of biofilm communities.

different strains of s. aureus and s. epidermidis show varying effects on protease activity of keratinocytes suggesting that a detailed understanding of staphylococcal colonization at the strain level will be important for understanding the impact on keratinocytes in ad patients.skin microbiomea crucial factor impacting skin barrier function and both local and systemic immune responses in ad is the skin-specific microbiome.

these methods can also be applied to other organisms such as s. epidermidis or other commensal staphylococcal species.conclusionthe severity of ad is significantly influenced by the coloni- zation of s. aureus and s. epidermidis which colonize the skin via microbial communities known as biofilms.

these findings suggest that interactions between microbial communities in the skin play a central role in the pathogenesis of ad and that res- toration of antimicrobial commensal strains can be an effective way to control s. aureus colonization .the impact of staphylococcal biofilms on immune responses and keratinocyte functiona number of studies have begun to assess the specific roles that staphylococcal biofilms play in the pathogenesis of ad.

when mice were colonized with s. aureus strains isolated from healthy controls and s. epidermidis from ad patients non- inflammatory responses were elicited.

among s. aureus and s. epidermidis isolates from ad pa- tients 85 were strong biofilm producers.

while the binding activity of clfb varies among s. aureus strains assessed these studies provide a molecular basis for how s. aureus may initiate colonization on ad skin.following attachment the nascent biofilm forms upon ac- cumulation of bacterial cells via intercellular adhesion events which occur via two primary mechanisms polysaccharide- and protein-dependent.

epidermidis or s. hominis that inhibited s. aureus growth to the skin of two ad subjects led to significant decreases ins.

2012225850-9. a study describing dysbiosis in active ad lesions using 16s rrna sequencing showing increased prevalence of both s. aureus and s. epidermidis.45.

a study using metagenomic shot- gun sequencing to identify strain-level differences in s. aureus and s. epidermidis colonization in pediatric ad patients.47.

20161132410-5. a study demonstrating zn2-depen- dent intercellular adhesion between s. aureus cells mediated by sasg and heterophilic adhesion between s. aureus and s. epidermidis mediated by sasgaap using single-cell force microscopy.peters bm jabra-rizk ma o'may ga costerton jw shirtliff me.

however in addition to the genetic predisposition to ad there is accumulating evidence demonstrating the central role that the skin microbiome plays in the pathogenesis of ad.

we will review the basics of biofilms and biofilm formation how skin-colonizing organisms interact with each other in biofilms how biofilms may trigger and exacerbate ad and how these recent developments influence potential directions for clinical management.epidemiology of atopic dermatitis and the hygiene hypothesisthe most valuable ad prevalence and trend data were col- lected by the international study of asthma and allergies on childhood isaac the only global study to use uniformly validated methodology to allow comparisons of populations worldwide .

the association of ad with factors that are linked to microbial exposure such as daycare attendance living on a farm envi- ronment household pets endotoxin exposure and early anti- biotic use supports the microbial component of ad .

to counterbalance the observed decrease in gram-negative gn species in patients with ad culturable gn strains from ad patients and healthy volunteers were tested for their effects ons.

