just seven of those otus 1.4 of the total contributed to 80 of the total sequence abundance.the highest otu richness and diversity was observed in soil sam- ples table 1. observed richness was significantly higher in buried carcasses than in fresh and beetle-prepared carcasses table 1 effectof treatment f2  10.62 p  .001. carcasses prepared by beetles and fresh carcasses showed similar levels of observed richness table 1tukey post hoc comparison adjusted p  .76. bacterial taxonomic diversity assessed as the inverse simpson index also differed sig-nificantly between carcass treatments effect of treatment f2  5.93p  .012. buried carcasses showed the greatest diversity while mea- sures for beetle-prepared and fresh carcasses were lower and simi- lar to each other.

we allowed carcasses to rest for a day to minimize differences between carcasses simply due to the physical manipulation of carcasses by beetles.

bacterial communities on the carcass 3.2.1  bacterial load on the carcassthere was an overall effect of carcass treatment on bacterial load estimated in copy numbers of the 16s rrna gene kruskal-wallis test kh2  7.15 p  .03 figure 1. beetle-prepared carcasses had sig- nificantly higher copy numbers of the 16s rrna gene than fresh car- casses dunn test z  2.37 benjamini-hochberg-adjusted p  .026 and manually buried carcasses z  2.15 benjamini-hochberg- adjusted p  .024. bacterial load did not differ significantly between fresh and buried carcasses z  0.10 p  .46.  richness and diversity of bacterial communitiesacross all samples we found that most otus occurred at very low sequence abundances.

after subsampling the otu table for soil sam- ples contained 2653 otus with just 9 of those responsible for 80the difference was marginally non-significant adjusted p  .087. fresh and beetle-prepared carcasses showed similar levels of diversity adjusted p  .451. hence despite the higher concentration of bac- terial dna in beetle-prepared carcasses these bacterial communities comprised fewer species than unprepared carcasses of the same age.figure 1 estimated copy number of the 16s rrna gene quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction in the three carcass treatments fresh beetle-prepared and buriedof total sequence abundance.

soil communities differed significantly from carcass communities pseudo-f  16.183 p  .001 figure 2. communities on fresh carcasses were significantly different from com- munities on beetle-prepared carcasses pseudo-f  10.217 p  .001. there were also significant differences between beetle-prepared and buried carcasses pseudo-f  5.262 p  .002. group dispersions were not significantly different between carcass treatments f  0.672 p  .524. permanova results on unifrac distances were in agree- ment with results obtained with bray-curtis distances table s1.the most common bacterial phyla in soil communities were actinobacteria and proteobacteria figure 3a see figure s3a for visual- ization at the taxonomic level of order.

an example of such a fast-growing bac- terium could be myroides which thrives in beetle-prepared carcasses but is scarce in manually buried carcasses.further evidence consistent with the weeding mechanism comes from our finding that bacterial community membership differed be- tween beetle-prepared carcasses and both fresh and manually buried carcasses figure 3b.

burying beetles pre- fer breeding on fresh carcasses over decaying ones potentially because decayed carcasses yield lower reproductive success rozen et al.

importantly the boxes of beetle- prepared carcasses and buried carcasses were opened the same num- ber of times so exposure to airborne microbes was similar.

none of the sampled carcasses showed signs of purg- ing decomposition fluids or bloating hence were not yet undergoing active decay as defined in megyesi nawrocki  haskell 2005. fresh beetle-prepared and buried carcasses were sampled following the same protocol.

for beetle- prepared carcasses the most abundant indicator otus were a planococcaceae two flavobacteriaceae one unclassified and one myroides and one moraxellaceae acinetobacter table 2 figure 5. other low abundance groups were also significantly associated with beetle-prepared carcasses one microbacteriaceae two clostridiales one unclassified and one tissierella and two enterococcaceae enterococcus and vagococcus.

myroides vagococcus and planococcaceae for ex- ample show the highest abundances in beetle-prepared carcasses and are also present at low abundances in buried carcasses.

labels below bars indicate the location from where soil wascollected in carcass samples this was the soil used to fill breeding boxesb1.000.750.500.250.00freshbeetleburieds1 s2 s3 s4 s5 s6s1 s2 s3 s4 s5 s6 s3s1 s2 s3 s4 s5 s6firmicutes were the most common group in all samples figure 4. there were similarities between beetle-prepared carcasses and sam- ples from breeding beetles particularly exudates from breeding bee- tles showed a high proportion of bacteroidetes figure 4b just as in beetle-prepared carcasses.

these otus which were the most abundant indicator otus in beetle-prepared carcasses were also abundant indicator otus in breeding beetles figure 5. breeding beetles shared a single planococcaceae otu kurthia with buried carcasses.

one unclassified bacillales and one ruminococcaceae clostridiales otu were the only indicators of communities of non-breeding individuals table 2.the breeding beetle indicator xanthomonadaceae otu classified as wohlfartiimonas was also present at lower abundances in beetle- prepared carcasses and guts of non-breeding beetles figure 5. some clostridiales such as tissierella were present in almost all beetle sam- ples as well as beetle-prepared carcasses.

2016. it is possible that the increased bacterial load observedin beetle-prepared carcasses when compared with fresh or buried carcasses may be due to bacterial growth occurring during the 24 hr between beetle removal and carcass sampling.

