di- etary emulsifiers such as carboxymethyl-cellulose andpolysorbate-80 could disturb host-microbiota interactionsand increase the probability of obesity 4546.antibiotic applicationthe association between obesity and antibiotic exposure has been demonstrated in both animal and human studies 47-49. in a murine model the perturbation caused by an- tibiotic exposure of gut microbiota associated with a high- fat diet is related to the occurrence of obesity 49. antibiotic-induced dysbiosis can alter the metabolic func- tions of gut microbiome and promote the efficiency of en- ergy extraction from food which consequently results inobesity 50.two mechanisms were proposed to link obesity with antibiotic-induced changes of the gut microbiota the reduc- tion of lipopolysaccharide lps that plays an important role in low-grade inflammation and the decreased excretion of faecal scfas caused by the diminished microbial fermen- tation of carbohydrates 51. a large amount of data showed that antibiotic exposure promoted the development of inflammatory disorders including obesity 52. knoop et al.

this is partly attributed to the effects of sex steroid hormones behaviour and genetics 113-115. it is recently found that gender can influence the gut microbiome-brain axis 116. diet has gender-dependent effects on the human gut microbiota and this may be correlated to the different prevalence of obesity in males and females 117. studiesin mice revealed that gender can regulate the circadian rhythmicity of gut microbiota and this rhythmicity was more pronounced in female mice 118.agethe aging process affects the compositional and functional profiles of gut microbiota 119120. during the first month of life bifidobacteria is the most abundant and bacteroides fragilis increases in the first year 15. the cessation of breast-feeding drives the stabilization of the intestinal eco-system towards adult-type maturation 98. the healthyadult-like gut microbiota is considered to maintain a rela- tive stable phylogenetic architecture throughout adulthood but then is affected by aging andor pathophysiological pro- cesses 120. in elderly people the abundance of bifidobacteria tends to decrease and that of bacteroidetes increases 15.deviations from a healthy-like gut microbiota similar tothose related to the aging process occur with obesity 120. analyses on obesity in elderly people revealed that se- nescent immune cells tended to accumulate during the aging process contributing to the pathogenesis of obesity.

a longitudinal birth cohort study indicated that infection during infancy was a major contributor to childhood obesity but the use of anti- biotics was not 145. additionally considering the differ- ences of digestive tracts between murine and humans the correlation of antibiotic exposure to obesity requires further clarification in human models 146. understanding the in- teraction of gut microbiota and obesity at the molecular level is important to design more effective strategies to ad- dress obesity 147.obesity is thought to be associated with phylum-levelchanges in gut microbiota including the reduction of the bacteroidetesfirmicutes ratio and the absence of a. muciniphila verrucomicrobia and bifidobacterium actinobacteria 148-150. c. minuta has been proved ef- fective when added to the obese-associated microbiome and reduced the weight gain of recipient mice 112.however a high level of diversity in gut microbiota is also important for maintaining the functional properties of the gut microbial ecosystem 151. relative low abundance of microbial species may contribute to dysfunction of the gut microbiome community.

the non-communicable disease risk factor collaboration ncd-risc reported that age-standardized obesity prevalence had increased about 2-3 times from 1975 to 2014 1. in 2014 approxi-mately 1.9 billion people worldwide were overweight and 600 million of these people were obese 2. obesity is known as a common type of metabolic syndrome and may be associated with type 2 diabetes cardiovascular disease and non-alcoholic fatty disease 3. additionally obesity is a major factor that promotes several cancers by compromis- ing human immunity 4-6.as a bioreactor for foods in the body the human gut contains numerous bacterial taxa that provide beneficial functions for human health.

the gut micro- biota plays an important role in energy harvest and storagefor obesity and reduced microbial gene richness is associ- ated with pronounced dys-metabolism 222425. dietary intervention can alter gut microbial gene richness but the curative effect of dietary intervention on obesity depends on both diet quality and quantity.influence of diet quality on gut microbiota interventiondiet quality has great influences on the efficacy of dietary intervention for obesity.

a cross-sectional survey containing 153 italian individuals indicated that high-level consumption of a mediterranean diet shaped the gut microbiota significantly enough to cause a curative effect for obesity 31.in addition to carbohydrates and lipids the relative amount of dietary nitrogen was found to fundamentally shape the gut microbiota structure and influence healthy host-microbiome outcomes 3233. some minor molecules in diets such as polyphenols flavonoids and medium-chain triglycerides are also able to shift gut microbiota and conse- quently alleviate obesity 34-39.influence of diet quantity on gut microbiota interventiondietary intake is another important factor in obesity patho- genesis and is closely linked with appetite and diet quality.appetite control is mainly based on gut-brain signalling and the intrinsic need for energy homeostasis.

prebiotics can reduce the num- bers of pathogens strengthen the gut barrier and stimulate host immune response 2762. however high-fat diets lacking prebiotics can increase the amount of lps- containing microbiota and subsequently cause the inflam-matory reaction that is accompanied by obesity 6364.probiotics are live microorganisms that are beneficial for host health when are administered in appropriate amounts 65. the effect of probiotics on body weight is dependent on the particular species and strains 66. lactobacillus and bifidobacterium can alter the abundance of most bene- ficial gut bacteria and differentially attenuate obesity of high fat diet-fed mice 67. fermented milk products with abun- dant probiotics can also modulate human gut microbiota and reduce obesity 68. the ability to survive passage through the upper gastrointestinal tract is critical for ingested probiotics.

both the uterus and placenta contain microbes and these microbes can reach the amniotic cavity 92-95. some inheritable taxons of the maternal microbiome can be transplanted to the offspring and this procedure may commence at an early stage in utero 96. low levels of mi- crobes are detected in the first-pass meconium samples ofhealthy-term vaginally delivered babies 97. analysis offaecal microbiome from 98 swedish infants and their mothers during the first year of life revealed that the microbiomes of c-section babies exhibited significantly less resemblance to the microbiomes of their mothers than did babies that were vaginally delivered 98.various factors can affect the maternal microbial ecology and pregnancy outcome including gut oral and milk- oriented microbiota 19. there is a link between maternaltable 2 additional factors affecting the efficacy of obesity treatment.factorsmechanism to influence obesity epidemicselected examplesselectedreferenceinheritable taxoninheritable taxons originating from maternal microbiota can be transferred to the offspringsfoetal environment is not sterile low levels of microbes detected in the first-pass meconium96-98100101genetic basishost genotype shapes the gut microbiota and subsequently drives the obesity phenotypegenderinfluences on gut microbiome-brain axis and regulates the circadian rhythmicity of gut microbiotaageaging process influences the compositional and functional of gut microbiota due to the differential physiological characteristicsgenes such as ucp1 tmem18 elavl4diversities in monozygotic twins and dizygotic twinssex steroid hormones behaviour and geneticsgender-dependent effects of dietearly-life antibiotic exposure cessation of breast-feeding senescent immune cells in elder people108109112113115-11848119-122environmental microbiotaexposure to environmental microbiota helps to develop and educates human immune system and shapes the microbial communitiescontaminated foods faeces and livestock indoor microbiota123-125128130climate and geographyenvironmental changes shift the environment-diet-microbe-host interactions.

about 40-70 of inter-individual var- iability in body mass index can be ascribed to genetic fac- tors 103-105. many genes such as ucp1 tmem18 elavl4 trim28 and s6k1 have been associated with obesity by influencing insulin secretion energy metabolism adipocyte formation and other processes 103106-109.studies have revealed that host genotype can partly regu- late the abundances of some gut microbial taxa and alter the susceptibility of obesity 105110111. in order to link hu- man gut microbiota to the genetics of obesity phenotypegoodrich et al.

addition- ally there were increased amounts of christensenella minuta in the lean twins 112. therefore genetic variants may shape the gut microbiota and subsequently drive the obesity phenotype.the above studies illustrated that obesity is undoubtedly heritable although there are likely more genes and related pathways that need to be identified.gendergender is an important factor affecting obesity.

studies in mice revealed that cold environment could alter the gut mi- crobiota in mice and the suppression of akkermansiamuciniphila by cold exposure increased the host energy in- take helping the host to survive in the cold 132. zietak and colleagues 2016 further confirmed that transplanta- tion of the 'cold microbiota' could reduce diet-induced obe- sity in germ-free mice upon cold exposure 133.environmental factors may be more efficient than host genetics in shaping the overall composition of gut microbi- ota 111. according to an experiment in rats exposure to chronic noise such as noises due to road traffic or a train can affect gut microbiota-host inflammatory homeostasis and contribute to metabolic disorders such as obesity 134-136. microbiota analyses of individuals from asian european and american suggested that living environ- ments together with eating habits and metabolic levels for different races exerted influences on gut microbiota 137. comparison of faecal microbiota from tibetan and chinese han living at different altitudes illustrated that individuals living at high altitude tended to have a higher relative abun- dance of firmicutes but a lower relative abundance of bacteroidetes than those living at low altitude 138. al- though a correlation between gut microbiota and geogra- phy has been reported the linking of obesity and geography via gut microbiota has not been reported.lifestyleslifestyle can also influence gut microbiota and effects on obesity.

when transplanted to germ-free mice the aberrant microbiota promoted glucose intolerance and obesity 142. moderate intake of red wine promoted higher microbiota diversity and this may be beneficial for obesity prevention 143.discussionthe relationship between gut microbiota and obesity is likely complex.

1. the challenges and potential of the treatment of obesity by gut microbiota modulation were extensively discussed.factors related to intervention methodsthe efficacy of gut microbiota modulation on obesity varies for different methods.

with the animal-based diet interven- tion the abundance of bile-tolerant microorganisms was in- creased and the levels of firmicutes that utilized plant polysaccharides were decreased 23. host-indigestible car- bohydrates are thought to play a critical role in maintainingtable 1 factors related to intervention methods for obesity treatmentfactorsmechanism to treat obesitychallengeselected referencesdietary interventionantibiotics applicationprebiotics and probiotics applicationhigh quality in dietary composition carbohydrate lipids protein polyphenol...low quantity in consumption appetite dietingreduction of lpsdecrease of faecal scfas excretion inhibition of helicobacter pylori infectionameliorate metabolic disorders through the improvement of gut microbiotaselectively increase the probioticsaffect the production of scfas by gut microbiotaconfused results in the capacities of acetate in balance of energy intake foodborne microbesfood additives host-dependent effectsclinically relevant impacts of different antibiotics on host metabolism influence from the original characterization of gut microbiota10232730313438444549-5153555764717275bariatric surgerymodulation of gut microbiota preoperative intestinal antisepsis changes of ph and electrolyte concentrations in gutcausality between bariatric surgery and change of gut microbiota79-8183faecal microbiota transplantationnormalize the composition and function of gut microbiotadiversity in the effect of differentcomponentsstandards for good donors cooperation with diet86-90lps lipopolysaccharide scfas short-chain fatty acids.healthy gut microbiota and low-fibre diets are attributed to microbiome depletion that promotes obesity.

2015 reported that saturated lipids in lard diet promoted obesity in mice but a fish-oil diet that contains polyunsatu- rated fatty acids restrained it 30.overall low-fat-high-fibre diets are recognized as a healthy choice to prevent obesity.

