as not enough time has passed to make long-term predictions about the efficacy of these vaccines continued monitoring of the nasopharyngeal microflora and causes of aom will be important in the future in various parts of the world.although the total effect on pneumococcal aom has not been as promising as for invasive disease a major benefit with the current vaccines is that a 10-26 reduction in recurrent aom and a 24-32 reduction in severe and complicated aom in- cluding a reduction of ventilation tube insertion have been ob- served  .

a fourth pathogen worth mentioning is s. pyogenes which although it only causes a small percentage of aom cases is the second most common organism associated with aom complications .

this is despite the 55-77 reduction in vaccine serotype-induced aom compared to the prevaccine era   and the 35-46 reduction in all pneu- mococcal aom   .

interestingly the all- cause aom is estimated to be reduced by only 0-7 in many regions of the world    despite a reduction inpneumococcal om which suggest both that a concomitant in- crease in serotype replacement by non-vaccine serotypes is taking place to some extent and that aom caused by other organisms is increasing.

the study also shows that h. influenzae was less likely to be isolated from the first incidence of aom in any individual and also showed that s. pneumoniae was responsible for the majority of recurrent and more compli- cated aom cases.heron mp smith bl.

it also shows that despite a decrease in all-pneumococcal aom the all-cause aom remains unaffected suggesting that other organisms replace pneumococci as pathogens in aom.moffitt kl malley r. next generation pneumococcal vaccines.

acute otitis media aom generally affect children under the age of two and is characterized with sudden onset of symptoms significantthis article is part of the topical collection on pediatrics otitis media in children anders p hakansson 1 division of experimental infection medicine department of translational medicine wallenberg laboratory lund university inga marie nilsson's street 53 20502 malmo se swedenpain and signs of inflammation with accumulation of purulent fluid behind the tympanic membrane.

based on new directives in several countries including sweden and parts of the usa aom in otherwise healthy children is usually treated with general analgesia antipyretic drugs and only for severe and recurrent cases with antibiotics.

despite this om is still a major reason for outpatient antibiotic prescription in the usa  and in many other parts of the world.116curr otorhinolaryngol rep 2017 5115-124in contrast secretory otitis media som sometimes referred to as otitis media with effusion is defined as a chronic inflam- matory condition mainly affecting children between the age of 3 and 7. som may occur as a sequela to aom and is generally not associated with any signs of an acute infection but presents with fluid behind the tympanic membrane and is associated with hear- ing impairment that over time can lead to cognitive and devel- opmental problems  .

besides causing infection on their own viruses commonly predisposes individuals to bacterial aom that is generally more symptomatic and primarily caused by the bacterial triad streptococcus pneumoniae the pneumococ- cus haemophilus influenzae and moraxella catarrhalis .

whether this change in species tropism is indicative of a change in the me environment as the acute infection transitions into a more chronic state or suggests that aom and som are two separate clinical entities is currently not completely understood.

pneumoniae the focus of this review accounts for 30- 50 of all aom cases in different parts of the world which amounts to approximately 300 million cases annually   .

however it is unclear whether the biofilms detected at these disease sites represent asymptomatic colonization and persistence of bac- teria from which virulent bacteria may seed off under the right conditions or if they are directly involved in the disease pro- cess   .mechanisms of transition to otitis mediabiofilm bacteria grown in vitro have an avirulent phenotype and are unable to cause aom in animals   .

each ofthese stimuli was shown to induce dispersal and dissemination of bacteria from asymptomatically colonized mice resulting in severe aom  .

the increased virulence of biofilm- dispersed bacteria in various animal infection models includ- ing aom compared to planktonic broth-grown bacteria is explained by the major differences between the transcriptomes of the bacterial populations.

