understanding the complexity of dna methylation and histone modification and the ability to epigenetically reprogram gene expression in differentiated cells such as neurons is therefore of major importance to cognitive research examining not only the role of emotions in information processing but also the effects ofdysregulation on decision-making including emotional states in social withdrawal impulsivity substance dependence in neuropsychiatric disorders and age-related neurodegenerative diseases.inter-relations between histone modification and dna methylation and transcriptional statesas described above gene expression requires the alteration of chromatin domains from condensed heterochromatin to a transcriptionally accessible euchromatin and dna demethylation.

this molecular mechanism is regulated by a variety of chromatin modifications including dna methylation non-coding rnas micro rnas long non-coding rnas and others polycomb-group proteins and post-translational histone modifications.this dynamic organization of chromatin structure prevents chromosome breakage and allows control of gene expression as well as replication and distribution of dna in mitotic and meiotic cell division thereby regulating patterns of gene expression and maintenance of cellular phenotype across generations.

82 998-1002. weaver i. c. g. hellstrom i. c. brown s. e. andrews s. d. dymov s. diorio j. et al.

19 571-577. skene p. j. illingworth r. s. webb s. kerr a. r. james k. d. turner d. j. et al.

cell 48 723-733. yang x. han h. de carvalho d. d. lay f. d. jones p. a. and liang g. 2014. gene body methylation can alter gene expression and is a therapeutic target in cancer.

consequently chromatin marks and histone modifying enzymes have emerged not only as promising biomarkers for disease diagnosis and prognosis but also informative for distinguishing disease subtypes and identifying suitable treatments      .ingeneralhistonedeacetylationbiotinylationandsumoylation repress gene transcription while histone acetylation and phosphorylation act as activators of gene expression.

these emerging concepts have biological relevance not only to celltissue homeostasis during normal development and ageing but also in the onset of physical and mental illness.regulation of chromatin by histone modificationsthe dynamic structure of chromatin is dependent on the histone tails of the core histones which interact with nucleosomal and linker dna and therefore not only play critical roles in gene regulation but also in the formation of higher-order chromatin .

20 515-524. valvassori s. s. varela r. b. arent c. o. dal-pont g. c. bobsin t. s. budni j. et al.

7 847-854. weaver i. c. g. d'alessio a. c. brown s. e. hellstrom i. c. dymov s. sharma s. et al.

schaefer a. sampath s. c. intrator a. min a. gertler t. s. surmeier d. j. et al.

accordingly the nature of gene misregulation conferring risk also has broad ranging implications for our understanding of personality and the interrelations between physiology and pathology of emotions.author contributionsicgw ack kl rvw ash and dg contributed equally to the preparation writing design editing and proof reading this review.fundingthe preparation of this review was supported by a discovery grant from the natural sciences and engineering research council of canada to icgw grant rgpin-2013-436204.acknowlegmentswe would like to thank dr. shelley e. brown for her helpful comments and numerous constructive suggestions throughout the preparation of this manuscript.referencesalarcon j. m. malleret g. touzani k. vronskaya s. ishii s. kandel e. r. et al.

science 310 679-683. konermann s. brigham m. d. trevino a. hsu p. d. heidenreich m. le c. et al.

56 758-767. rusconi d. negri g. colapietro p. picinelli c. milani d. spena s. et al.

furthermore levels and turnover of metabolic intermediates are influenced by dietary and nutrient intake metabolic status hypoxia hyperglycemia redox status inflammation oxidative stress as well as endocrine unbalance and disease that in turn can alter histone modification enzyme expression levels.regulation of chromatin by dna methylation--demethylationdna methylation is the primary epigenetic mark often considered the ''fifth base'' that regulates the formation of heterochromatic regions in the genome with crucial roles in control of gene expression in both physiological and pathological conditions.

here we discuss the major molecular epigenetic mechanisms that control stable gene expression temporal and spatial in the brain and generated in response to physiological or pathological signals the environment challenges associated with studying the contribution of these molecular epigenetic changes to complex behavioral phenotypes and future directions for understanding the manifestation of stress in humans.dynamic organization of chromatin structure and functioncells in multicellular organisms are structurally and functionally heterogeneous due to differential gene expression which is controlled by dynamic organization of the genome into chromosome territories and domains of different transcriptional potential  .

