Shannon index Steel Dwass tests Ip vs IIIp p  4.10 10-01 Simpson D index Steel Dwass tests Ip vs IIIp p  8.8 10-02 .Incidence of P. aeruginosa genotypes on RISA profilesWith PFGE analysis 17 P. aeruginosa strains were recovered from the 11 sputa of patients belonging to RISA cluster Ip 17 strains from the 11 sputa of RISA cluster IIp and 26 strains from the 18 sputa of RISA cluster IIIp.

The Pp microbiota were composed of 64.8 of shared RISA bands that one could consider the core species of this group of patients and the Pn microbiota were found to share RISA bands at about 39.6 Chi2 test p  8.4 10-05.A dendrogram was computed to compare the 104 RISA profiles from the Pp and Pn sputa .

However clones were most often restricted to a single cluster of RISA profiles exception for clone G. Clone E was recovered from two patients which shared closely related RISA profiles .Analysis of confounding factorsThe effects of factors other than the presence of P. aeruginosa that might have contributed to the observed RISA profiles were investigated.

CF patients of cluster IIp had received significantly less antibiotics than patients of clusters Ip and IIIp but harbored the most resistant P. aerugi- nosa strains.

However as for patients with respiratory disorders like asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD studies based onnon-cultural analysis showed the presence of complex lung microbiota in CF patients -.

maltophilia on the patients' status remains unclear  these results highlighted an associa- tion andor succession between two non-fermenting CF pathogens in CF lungs that should be followed by clinicians.In this study a negative correlation between the presence of Pseudomonas and Haemophilus was observed and confirmed previous reports .

Third clinical status and particularly CF exacerbation can induce significant changes in the CF microbiota and lead to andor result from an evolution from a stable to a disturbed state .Among factors leading to modifications in the structure of CF microbiota several bacterial properties that favor microbial interactions have been proposed.

In our study patients from cluster IIIp received more antibiotic treatments and in particular tobra- mycin and colistin aerosol both targeting P. aeruginosa than patients from cluster Ip leading to the hypothesis that the nature of the antibiotic treatments could have divided the Pseudomo- nas RISA profiles into two clusters Ip and IIIp.

The significance of factors such as age antibiotic therapies and presence of P. aeruginosa on the structuration of RISA datasets was evaluated by a redundancy RDA analysis.ResultsV5-V6 rrs meta-taxogenomic analysis of CF sputaCF sputa were recovered from 104 patients.

Other genera such as Streptococcus and Staphylococcus did not reveal significant differences in the distribu- tion of their respective OTUs.RISA of individual CF sputum DNA extracts and clusteringAll individual 104 DNA extracts from CF sputa were analyzed by RISA .

