further we hypothesized that like the total bacterial communities the pnfb communities are host plant specific and additionally shaped by climatic regions.materials and methodssampling and dna isolationthe plant and dna samples used to characterize total bacterial communities kumar et al.

2017. in brief after removing rhizosphere soil parts plant roots were thoroughly washed with water and surface-sterilized by immersion into 3 sodium hypochlorite 3 min followed by rinses in sterile double-distilled water 3 x 90 s. 80-100 mg of processed root sample were snap-frozen with liquid nitrogen and stored at -80c for dna extraction and analysis.nifh library preparation and sequencingthe mobio power soil kit mobio carlsbad ca usa and invisorb spin plant midi kit stratec biomedical ag germany were used to extract dna from soil and plant samples respectively as described in kumar et al.

however we detected small but significant impacts of host plant species on the endosphere pnfbtable 1  impact of different factors on pnfb community structures.permanova3.0815 0.001the permanova is based on bray-curtis dissimilarity matrixes of square-root transformed relative abundances of pnfb opus.

oppositifolia on the endophytic pnfb communities across regions table 1. the difference between pnfb communities of the two plant species was smaller than the previously reported effect on total bacterial community structures kumar et al.

these pnfb communities representing pioneer communities that are likely to become more common in near future due to changing climate differ clearly from plant associated pnfb communities described in different climates and in high organic matter tundra soils.nucleotide sequence datanucleotide sequence data have been submitted to the ena database with accession number prjeb20618.author contributionsstudy was conceptualized and designed by rn mk and jve.

 1 2  2 and 11 department of biological and environmental science university of jyvaskyla jyvaskyla finland 2 department of microbial ecology university of groningen groningen netherlandsedited bydavide bulgarelli university of dundee united kingdomreviewed byadrian ho leibniz university of hanovergermany silvia proiettiuniversita degli studi della tuscia italycorrespondenceriitta nissinen specialty section this article was submitted to plant microbe interactions a section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 01 june 2017accepted 25 september 2017published 13 october 2017citation kumar m van elsas jd and nissinen r 2017 strong regionalityand dominance of anaerobic bacterial taxa characterize diazotrophic bacterial communities of the arcto-alpine plant species oxyria digyna and saxifraga oppositifolia.

arcto-alpine plant species are well-adapted to the low temperatures that prevail in their habitats and plant growth is mainly limited by the availability of nutrients in particular nitrogen due to slow mineralization.

in this study we characterized the potential nitrogen fixing bacterial pnfb communities associated with two arcto-alpine pioneer plant species oxyria digyna mountain sorrel and saxifraga oppositifolia blue saxifrage in three climate regions.

our goal was to investigate how climate region and on the other hand host plant and plant species shape these communities.

in these the pnfb communities in the bulk and rhizosphere soils and the plant endospheres were characterized by nifh-targeted pcr and massive parallel sequencing.

overall anaerobic bacterial taxa dominated the pnfb communities of the endospheres and rhizospheres of the two plant species in all study sites.

this could indicate anoxic conditions in and around plant roots at the time of sampling early growth season created by melting snow and underlying permafrost.keywords nifh pioneer plants geobacter clostridium endophytic bacteriaintroductionnitrogen n is considered to be the major limiting factor for both microbial and plant growth in arctic and alpine biomes chapin et al.

thus a suite of nifh genes affiliated with the bacterial phyla proteobacteria classes a- b- d-  and g - proteobacteria and acidithiobacillia firmicutes actinobacteria chlorobi bacteroidetes cyanobacteria and verrucomicrobia was detected figure 2. the most abundant reads in the dataset clustered with nifh gene sequences from the d- proteobacteria genera geobacter and desulfotignum g -proteobacteria bradyrhizobium firmicutes genera clostridium desulfosporosinus and acetobacterium and b- proteobacteria burkholderia burkholderiales and leptothrix comamonadaceae figure 2. in the further text we use these partial sequences to characterize the populations of pnfb.the species richness and diversity of pnfb communities is lowest in the high arcticthe species richness sr and shannon diversity values sd of the pnfb communities based on the nifh gene amplicon opus as a proxy were highest in the bulk soils followed by the rhizosphere soils and the endosphere samples.

in the plant-associated compartments rhizo- and endospheres the values of both parameters were highest in the kj in both plant-associated compartments but the differences between kj and other regions were significant only in the rhizosphere communities p  0.05 figure 3.community structures of pnfb are driven by compartment and regionthe community structures of the pnfb were analyzed at the opu level across all samples.

compartment region and sampling site all had significant impacts on the pnfb community structures with compartment being the most important factor table 1. the endosphere pnfb communities were significantly different from those from both soil compartments p  0.003 while we detected no significant differences between bulk and rhizosphere soil community structures table 1 in region-wide analyses.

