nature 486 222-227. using our methodology we classify subjects according to the geographical location on the basis of their gut microbiome.keywords classification high dimension microbiome data missing data sparsity.introductionwith the advancement of high-throughput technologies it is now common to encounter high-dimensional data where the number of parameters d exceeds the sample size n. one of many such examples is the human microbiome data obtained by the 16s rrna sequencing technology.

we repeat simulations on100 independent data sets that are generated under the following settings.i d is fixed at 75 and n is allowed to vary from 50 to 250 with increments of 2 leading to 101 independent data sets and ii d is allowed to vary from 10 to 100 with increments of 15 and n is allowed to vary from 50 to 200 with increments of 10 leading to 112 independent data sets.figures and illustrate the results of our simulation.

422-433 doi10.1093biostatisticskxw053 advance access publication on 8 january 2017structural zeros in high-dimensional data with applications to microbiome studiesabhishek kaulbiostatistics and computational biology branch national institute of environmental health sciencesrtp nc 27709 usa ori davidovdepartment of statistics university of haifa haifa 31905 israelshyamal d. peddadabiostatistics and computational biology branch national institute of environmental health sciences rtp nc 27709 usasummarythis paper is motivated by the recent interest in the analysis of high-dimensional microbiome data.

we also apply our methodology to classify observations to geographical locations based on the global human gut microbiome data of .some work related to ours in the literature is that of  who provide a regression setting for the analysis of longitudinal data truncated by deaths here they make a similar distinction between zeros in response variable due to an individual dropping out of the study or due to death in this context the zero due to death can be described as a structural zero in our definition.

results at d  75.right panel of figure describes the results of the simulation for the clime methodology described in section 3.1.analysis of global human gut microbiome datain this section we analyze the global human gut microbiome data of available at the repository mg-rast under accession numbers qiime621 for fecal microbiome shotgun sequencing data sets.

further details on the availability of data have been provided in the supplementary material available at biostatistics online.the data consist of microbial otu counts obtained from individuals of united states us venezuela ve and malawi ma.

a key feature of these data is the presence of structural zeros which are microbes missing from an observation vector due to an underlying biological process and not due to error in measurement.

the proposed methodology is illustrated by applying it to the global gut microbiome data of yatsunenko and others 2012. human gut microbiome viewed across age and geography.

the resulting data known as operational taxonomic units otus represent counts of thousands of microbial taxa  .

x1 is said to be sub-gaussian if there exists a b  0 such that for every t r one has eetx1 eb2t22.in contrast to typical high-dimensional data not all variables i.e.

microbes are observed in a sample of microbiome data.

's mi1 i n with sample space described in .in many applications including the analysis of microbiome data it may be unreasonable to assume that the missingness is generated by identically distributed r.v.

here each dot triangle represents frobenius norm of estimation error for each independent data set.

we subdivide the data into two age categories under 2 years and at least 2 years.

after several pre-processing steps of the raw otu data we obtain for each age group and each location a matrix of observations with d 75 microbes and inherent structural zeros.

