k0 indicated the fecal fermentation of polysaccharide st-p2 at 0 h k24 and k48 indicated the fermentation of water at 24 and 48 h respectively y24 and y48 indicated the fermentation of polysaccharide st-p2 at 24 and 48 h respectively.both st-p2 and control groups over a period of 24 h fermentation.

as shown in  none of free monosaccharide was detected in the fermentation mediums at the initial fermentation 0 h. over a period of 6 h fermentation the contents of arabinose galactose xylose mannose and galacturonic acid were significantly increased at different levels.

it was found that st-p2 fermentation exhibitedtable 3changes of free monosaccharides in fermentation medium during fermentation.

structural characterization and in vitro fermentation of a novel polysaccharide from sargassum thunbergii and its impact on gut microbiotaxiong fu changliang cao beibei ren bin zhang qiang huang chao lia school of food science and engineering south china university of technology 381wushan road guangzhou chinab guangdong province key laboratory for green processing of natural products and product safety guangzhou chinac overseas expertise introduction center for discipline innovation of food nutrition and human health 111 center guangzhou chinaa r t i c l e i n f o keywordsseaweed polysaccharides fermentationgut microbiotashort chain fatty acidsa b s t r a c t the aim of the present study was to investigate structural characteristic and in vitro fermentation of a novel polysaccharide named st-p2 from sargassum thunbergii by human fecal inoculums and its impact on human colonic microbiota.

however to date little in- formation was available on the structure and fermentation of the polysaccharides from s. thunbergii.therefore the aim of the present study was to investigate the structure and fermentation behavior in vitro of the polysaccharide froms.

the fermentation medium was prepared according to the method of  which were sterilized at 121 degc for 30 min before use.fermentationten milliliter of sterilized st-p2 solution 30 mgml or ultrapure water the control was thoroughly mixed with 45 ml of human fecal inoculums and 45 ml of fermentation medium using a vortex mixer.

the fermentation products were centrifuged at 8000g for 15 min and filtered through a 0.22 mm of nylon membrane before analysis.determination of scfa contentthe fermentation products were centrifuged at 8000g for 15 min and filtered through a 0.22 mm microporous filtering film before ana- lysis.

the result indicated that st-p2 was branched and en- tangled with each other.ph change during fermentationthe ph change of the fermentation culture reflects fermentation process.

the ph reduction in st-p2 fermentation culture may besugar in st-p2 fermentation were 1.436 and 0.358 mgml respec- tively.

thereafter the concentration of total carbohydrate significantly decreased during 0-24 h fermentation and then tended to stable while the concentration of reducing sugar significantly increased to the highest point at 6 h and then began to decline with the rest time points 6-48 h. after 48 h of fermentation the percentage of total carbohy- drate utilized by fecal microbiota was 67.83 - 1.15 which was higher than 55.03 of the polysaccharides from cyclocarya paliurus leaves  and 45.36 of mulberry fruit polysaccharides .

3. ph change in fermentation cultures with polysaccharide st-p2 or water the control at different fermentation time points.

for investigating the monosaccharide consumption of st-p2 the changes of monosaccharide contents in fermentation mediums were measured during 48 h fecal fermentation.

after 48 h fermentation 67.83 - 1.15 of total carbohydrate was utilized by colonic microbiota.

in the last decades considerable research has indicated that fermentation of dietary carbohydrate is beneficial for host and intestinal health by modulating colonic microbiota composition lowering colonic ph in- creasing production of short chain fatty acids scfas and stimulating colonic immune responses  .

these carbohydrates can not be entirely di- gested or absorbed in the upper gastrointestinal tract and then reach large bowel where they are available for fermentation by colonic mi- crobiota thus conferring prebiotic effects  .sargassum thunbergii belonging to the family of sargassum has been traditionally used as an edible and medicinal material in china and other asian countries for centuries  .

