the primary bile acid ca which was derived from the conjugated endogenous bile acids by specific gut bacteria was much higher in meihua than landrace p  0.05 while the secondary bile acids dca and lca derived from the primary bile acids were significantly lower in meihua compared with landrace particularly for dca p  0.05 figure 2b.

2014.the mrna expression of bile acid receptor fxr which is activated by unconjugated primary and secondary bile acids and inhibited by conjugated bile acids wahlstrom et al.

2016. here we showed that the abundance ofbacterial genes bile salt hydrolase ko1442 related to secondary bile acid biosynthesis was higher in the colonic lumen of meihua piglets while the absolute quantification of secondary bile acids dca and lca in the colon contents was lower.

2017. in addition bile acids in the gut lumen can also directly regulate microbiotic functioning by serving as an antibiotic for bile sensitive bacteria or as a promoter for bile acid-metabolizing bacterial communities hofmann and eckmann 2006 wahlstrom et al.

the impact values for those seven pathways including arginine and proline metabolism pyrimidine metabolism alanine-aspartate- glutamate metabolism tyrosine metabolism d-glutamineand d-glutamate metabolism sphingolipid metabolism and pantothenate-coa biosynthesis were 0.199 0.164 0.384 0.1520.139 0.140 and 0.180 respectively table s3.high levels of scfas and secondary bile acids accumulated in the colon lumen of landrace pigletsin order to validate differences in the gut metabolome between the two pig breeds we used a targeted metabolomics approach to quantify the concentrations of some microbiota-derived metabolites bile acids and scfas in the colon lumen.

the result indicated that the high levels of scfas in the colon lumen of landrace might be positively correlated with the expression of gpr41and slc5a8 in colon mucosa.for bile acids in the colon lumen landrace piglets had higher levels of the secondary bile acids lca and dca when compared to meihua piglets.

as shown in figure 5 the relative higher abundances of streptococcus cf231 bulleidia chlamydia and neisseria were positively associated with higher concentrations of microbial metabolites in landrace including bile acids scfas and lipids p  0.05. the relative lower abundances of bacterioides holdemania and yrc22 were negatively associated with the higher concentrations of bile acids scfas and lipids in landrace when compared to meihua piglets p  0.05.furthermore the relative higher abundances of 16 bacterialspeciesinlandracefigures5includingc.

during metabolism of bile acids taurine- or glycine-conjugated bile acids were found to escape from the distal ileum when reabsorbed to enterohepatic circulation.

in-depth analyses using an in-house msms database established by authentic standards allowed for conclusive identification of 70 biomarker metabolites table 1. those 70 compounds included bile acids free amino acids dipeptides lipids nucleotides organic acids nitrogen-containing compounds and so on.

in landrace piglets the relative levels of five bile acids deoxycholic acid lithocholic acid glycocholate ursodeoxycholic acid and taurolithocholic acid four sphingolipids lyso pe 203n600 pe 20300 phytosphingosine and sphinganine two fatty acids stearic and 16-hydroxypalmitic acid four benzene derivatives hydroquinone 3-methylphenyacetic acid 14-dihydroxybenzene and 3-hydroxybenzoate and 11 other compounds in the colon lumen were significantly higher than those in meihua piglets p  0.05. however the relative levels of six free amino acids glutamine glutamate d-proline l-proline citrulline and tyrosine eight dipeptides phe-thr lys-leu pro-val iie-pro his-iie lys-pro and phe-val five nucleotides thymine uracil adenine deoxyguanosine and 2- hydroxyadenine and 16 other compounds were significantly lower in landrace piglets compared to meihua piglets p  0.05. the metabolome view map generated by the software metaboanalyst 3.0 revealed that nine relevant pathways were significantly enriched for those 70 metabolites based on p- value 0.05 or impact value 0.1 figure s1.

collectively our results demonstrate for the first time that there were differences in the colonic microbiome and metabolome between meihua and landrace piglets with the most profound disparity in production of scfas and secondary bile acids.keywords microbiome metabolome pig breeds colon short chain fatty acids bile acidsintroductionthe gastrointestinal tract is a multi-function organ that harbors a dynamic microbiota population that interacts with the nutritional physiological and immunological functions of the host brestoff and artis 2013. gut microbiota are influenced by many factors such as genetics environment diet diseases and lifestyle ananthakrishnan 2015. previous research suggests that genetic information of gut microbes is transmissible through generations goodrich et al.

2016. microbiota- derived bile acids can modulate the metabolic activities of the host through activation of bile acid receptors such as farnesoid x receptor fxr and takeda g protein-coupled receptor 5 tgr5 fiorucci et al.

the ratio of each scfas component was recorded as followed 48.8 and46.2 for acetic acid 29.0 and 32.5 for propionic acid 16.4 and16.2 for butyric acid 2.0 and 2.0 for isovaleric acid and 3.8 and 3.1 for valeric acid in landrace and meihua respectively figure s2b.based on the untargeted metabolomics approach metabolites from bile acid metabolism were different between these two pig breeds table 1. due to these differences we further quantified the primary and secondary bile acids by lc-msms.

bile salt hydrolase is the key enzyme involved in metabolism of primary bile acids.

however before these bile acids escape they are deconjugated by bile salt hydrolase secreted by gut microbiota including lactobacillus bifidobacteria enterobacter bacteroides and clostridium wahlstrom et al.

