104-114 8. as african hiv-infected populations with less access to antiretroviral drugs and higher burden of coinfections such as tuberculosis have an increased risk for mortality after hospitalization for pneumonia it is important to understand the role of the lung microbiome in this setting as a potential tool to modify pneumonia risk and outcome.the current study by shenoy and colleagues expands on prior work in the hiv-infected population with pneumonia by examining a large cohort of individuals from uganda undergoing bronchoscopy for acute pneumonia 8. in addition to shedding light on the bacterial communities in the lung during pneumonia in hiv in particular the work is important for its broader implications for the field of the lung microbiome in general.

initial studies applying non-culture-based sequencing techniques demonstrated that the lower respiratory tract has a detectable microbial population that may be altered in disease 1-4. some of the first organized efforts to examine the lung microbiome were performed in hiv-infected individuals 5-7. these studies primarily focused on outpatients who were not experiencing acute pulmonary complications and explicitly excluded individuals with pneumonias to study the microbiome of healthy individuals.because hiv-infected individuals remain at risk for bacterial pneumonia as a result of persistent innate and acquired immune deficits even when treated with antiretroviral therapy there has been recent interest in alterations of the hiv lung microbiome in the setting of acute pneumonia.

respiratory viruses associated with community-acquired pneumonia in children matched case-controlstudy.

childhood pneumonia the role of viruses.

u.s. hospitalizations for pneumonia after a decade of pneumococcal vaccination.

a preliminary study of pneumonia etiology among hospitalized children in kenya.

community-acquired pneumonia requiring hospitalization among u.s. children.

aetiology of childhood pneumonia in a well vaccinated south african birth cohort a nested case-control study of the drakenstein child health study.

low- and middle-income countries shoulder a disproportionate share of the burden of bacterial pneumonia and pulmonary infection is a common and frequently fatal complication of hiv infection in uganda the site of the study published in this issue of the journal by shenoy and colleagues pp.

by integrating the microbiome host gene expression metabolomics and clinical outcomes and by investigating the relationships between bacteria and other organisms this study demonstrates how to move beyond simple bacterial description and raises the possibility of tailoring therapies based on microbial dysbiosis.the discovery of different microbial community states or phenotypes of the lung microbiome is novel in this population of hiv-infected patients with pneumonia.

attribution of causality is difficult as sampling was done at the time of pneumonia.

the cohort also provides insight into hiv- infected ugandan patients with pneumonia however the results of this study may have limited applicability to patients in the united states and other western countries because of differences in patient demographics laboratory testing and antibiotic availability as well as the high hiv-tuberculosis coprevalence in uganda.

the investigators have in fact previously reported differences in the lung microbiome of hiv-infected patients with pneumonia in san francisco and uganda 10. a strength of the study was the integration of the bacterial microbiome with findings of fungal and mycobacterial cultures but sequence-based analyses of fungi and viruses were not performed.

a growing body of evidence implicates the importance of the gut microbiome in shapingthe immune response in the lung and its response to insults 11-13 and infections in the lung may influence the gut microbiome as has been shown in animal models of tuberculosis 14.the implications of the study by shenoy and colleagues extend beyond the investigation of the lung microbiome during pneumonia in hiv-infected individuals 8. with studies such as the current one we have hopefully begun to move beyond the beginning studies of simple taxonomic investigations to include microbial function host and microbe metabolism and host response in determining the role of the lung microbiome in health and disease.

immune response and mortality risk relate to distinct lung microbiomes in patients with hiv and pneumonia.

