no differences in median age sex and framingham score could be observed between the sibo and no-sibo groups.vitamin k2 intake was determined to be 21.2 8-49.7 mgd in the sibo group which was similar to 31.9 10.5-103.6 mgd consumed by the control subjects in the no-sibo group p  0.111. the median dp-ucmgp serum level was 4.76 mgl 1.75- 25.7 table 2 dp-ucmgp was observed to be significantly increased in patients with sibo 9.5 mgl vs 4.2 mgl p  0.02 table 2 and figure 2.the daily intake of vitamin k2 was not associated with plasma levels of dp-ucmgp t  -0.08 p  0.441. sixteen of the 39 patients 41 presented with at least one or more microcalcifications in the explored arterial districts supplementary table 2. it is to be noted however that no arterial plaque was detected.

assuming a constant difference between mean arterial pressure and diastolic pressure along the arterial tree the qas system is able to detect systo-diastolic changes in the arterial diameter following arterial wall movementsparameters.

it is to be noted that the daily median vitamin k2 intake of patients included in the study was comparable to that of other european populations3637 and was similar between patients with sibo and those without 21.1 mgd vs31.9 mgd p  0.111 table 2. as plasma vitamin k2 levels are difficult to assess with accuracy38 we adopted dp-ucmgp levels as surrogate biomarkers for estimating the vitamin k2 nutritional status.

intestinal bacteria are involved in vitamin k2 metabolism.research frontierslittle is known about vitamin k2 metabolism in patients with intestinal dysbiosis and its association with vascular disease.innovations and breakthroughssibo is associated with both reduced matrix gla-protein activation as well as arterial stiffening both of which are important signs of subclinical atherosclerosis.applicationspatients should be screened for sibo so as to rule out an additional factor that predisposes to cardiovascular disease or accelerates its progression.

the exclusion of patients with comorbidities limited external interactions which allowed us to exclusively evaluate the correlation between sibo vitamin k2 metabolism mgp carboxylation and early arterial dysfunction or vascular lesions without the interference of any confounding factors.in conclusion patients affected by sibo have higher levels of inactive mgp as well as increased arterial stiffness both of which are early markers for vascular dysfunction.

atherosclerosis and dysbiosisdephosphorylated-uncarboxylated matrix gla-protein 9.5 mgl vs 4.2 mgl p  0.004. arterial stiffness was elevated in the sibo group pulse-wave velocity 10.25 ms vs 7.68 ms p  0.002 and this phenomenon was observed to correlate linearly with the levels of dephosphorylated-uncarboxylated matrix gla-protein b 0.220 r 2  0.366 p  0.03. carotid intima-media thickness and arterial calcifications were not observed to be significantly elevated as compared to controls.conclusionsibo is associated with reduced matrix gla-protein activation as well as arterial stiffening.

sibo diagnosis was regarded as confirmed if theexpired air exhibited an increase of at least 12 parts per million ppm above the baseline in hydrogen and or methane activity.quantification of vitamin k2 daily intakein order to assess the daily intake of vitamin k2 a food frequency questionnaire obtained from the european prospective investigation on cancer and nutrition epic nutrient database project was readapted and used23.the questionnaire was structured into three sections.

for this reason patients afflicted with sibo andor low vitamin k2 status could hypothetically be at an increased risk for the development of atherosclerotic disease.to the best of our knowledge the present study is the first to investigate the consequences of vitamin k2 metabolism derangement on mgp activity in patients with sibo.

when compared to the control group the sibo group presented with higher dp-ucmgp serum levels which is suggestive of either a reduced dietary vitamin k2 intake or an altered vitamin k2 production by intestinal bacteria.

this condition is not influenced by vitamin k2 intake from diet confirming that bacteria are the main source of this vitamin in humans and that vitamin k2 metabolism may be altered as a consequence of small intestinal dysbiosis.

longitudinal studies assessing the role of sibo as a condition that predisposes patients to the development of atherosclerosis are needed for this category of patients vitamin k2 supplementation and the treatment of intestinal dysbiosis may be therapeutic alternatives of significant utility.backgroundsmall intestinal bacterial overgrowth sibo is associated with altered vitamin k2 metabolism.

increased levels of the inactive form of mgp dephosphorylated-uncarboxylated mgp dp- ucmgp is widely regarded as one of the best marker for low vitamin k2 status6 and has been known to be associated with the signs of early vascular disease intima-media thickening arterial stiffness and vascular calcifications7-14 and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality15-17.ponziani fr pompili m di stasio e zocco ma gasbarrini a flore r. subclinical atherosclerosis is linked to small intestinal bacterial overgrowth via vitamin k2-dependent mechanisms.

the patients suffering from diabetes chronic kidney disease at any stage those receiving oral anticoagulant treatment and those afflicted with any carotid aortic femoral and popliteal plaque according to the mannheim criteria as detected at the time of ultrasound examination were also excluded from the protocol20.the patients fulfilling the selection criteria under- went a glucose breath test gbt filled in a food frequency questionnaire for the assessment of daily vitamin k2 intake provided a blood sample for the quantification of circulating dp-ucmgp and underwent ultrasound us examination of the non-coronary arterial system.the study was performed in agreement with the declaration of helsinki and subsequent amendments.

nevertheless it has been recently demonstrated that metabolic products generated by gut bacteria are implicated in the development of atherosclerotic lesions34.mgp is a vitamin k2 dependent protein that helps in preventing calcium accumulation in the arterial wall.

this observation indirectly confirms the previously reported theory that food is not the primary source of vitamin k2 supplementation in humans and that the gut microbiota is crucial for overcoming dietary insufficiencies under physiologic conditions23.in all subjects including those in the sibo group the serum levels of inactive dp-ucmgp were found to directly correlate with pwv which is a surrogate parameter of arterial stiffness.

