malik jain hakim shukla  rizvi recent findings investigated the role of bacterial vaginosis bv causing species in the subclinical alteration of the vaginal micro- biome and their relationship with women's infertility van oostrum et al.

we compared the vaginal microbiome of infertile women affected by different clinicalphysiological conditions with that of healthy and bacterial vaginosis affected women.data from the present study are consistent with recent reports which documented that infertility condition is accompanied by acompositional change in the vaginal microbiota.

the couples that do not benefit from infertility treatment after the assessment of tubal patency normal ovulatory and sperm parameters have a diagnosis of idiopathic or unexplained infertility ray shah gudi  homburg an efficient treatment for infertility depends on the identifica- tion of a vast range of biomarkers in order to select the best existing therapy among the many possible options thus a correct identifica- tion of the ongoing alterations is fundamental for selecting a suitable therapy.recent studies associate opportunistic pathogens in the lower female reproductive tract with adverse pregnancy outcomes after both natural and in vitro fertilization ivf conceptions fox and eichelberger franasiak et al.

in infertile and vaginosis the relative abundance of l. crispatus is lower 25 and 6 respectively than idiopathic 31 where in turn it is underrepresented than control 36. thus the drop of l. crispatus correlates with a more susceptible urinary tract to uropathogens revealing a link between lower genital and urinary tract infections.our study overall supports that lactobacilli favor a healthy environment for pregnancy and are suitable marker in monitoring the transitional phase of vaginal flora during the estrogen treatment of in vitro fertilization jakobsson and forsum in addition the depletion of lactobacilli is linked to the inability to inhibit the colonization by specific harmful microorganisms that increase early miscarriage rates mangot-bertrand et al.

the study design identified four groups including women with idiopathic infertility idiopathic n 14 women with a diagnosed infertility infertile n 13 fertile women with bv vaginosis n 39 and fertile healthy women control n 30.table 1 demographics of groupsinfertility factorspregnancy outcomeout of 27 infertile women 14 were diagnosed with idiopathic infertility.

the women affected by idiopathic infertility showed tubal patency by hysterosalpingogram or laparoscopy and normal ovulatory function including mid-luteal progesterone basal body temperature and cervical mucus changes.among women with a diagnosed infertility the most frequent cause was endometriosis.in fertile women bacterial vaginosis bv was diagnosed using the nugent score criteria.

apmis acta pathologica microbiologica et immunologica scandinavica 11011 802-810.team r. d. c. 2009. r a language and environment for statistical computing.van oostrum n. de sutter p. meys j.  verstraelen h. 2013. risks associated with bacterial vaginosis in infertility patients a systematic review and meta-analysis.

the alteration of vaginal environment may facilitate the ascending dissemination of the infecting species that could finally lead to tubal factor infertility mastromarino et al.

vaginalis normally expected in vaginosis is absent only in control 0.3 and common to both idiopathic and infertile.despite the low abundance we suggest a role for a. vaginae p. bivia v. montpellierensis e. fergusonii and u. parvum as secondary players in idiopathic infertility where they could strengthen a previous imbalance in the healthy vaginal microbiome.

the simpson's reciprocal index a-diversity increased from control to vaginosis suggesting that within vaginosis the bacterial species are not in absolute number the most abundant ones chao1 index but they are the most heterogeneous comparing to the other cohorts.

reproductive biomedicine online 246 591-602.recine n. palma e. domenici l. giorgini m. imperiale l. sassu c. ... benedetti panici p. 2016. restoring vaginal microbiota biological control of bacterial vaginosis.

sweet .recent studies addressing the vaginal microbiome composition using the next generation sequencing ngs techniques reported the broad involvement of bacterial species in infertility.

healthy red squares  vaginosis green crosses  idiopathic blue circles  and infertile orange triangles dinfections lamont et al.

the retrieval of l. gasseri in the idiopathic suggests a negative correlation between an elevated amount of l. gasseri and the art outcome.our study supports l. iners as a marker of microbiome healthiness basing on the abundance of this bacterium in control 51 comparing to idiopathic 29 infertile 18 and vaginosis 15. walther- antonio et al.

received 11 november 2016  revised 5 january 2017  accepted 17 january 2017 doi 10.1002jcp.25806original research article subclinical alteration of the cervical-vaginal microbiome in women with idiopathic infertilitygiuseppina campisciano1 fiorella florian2 angela d'eustacchio3david stankovic2 giuseppe ricci13 francesco de seta13 manola comar131 department of medical sciences university of trieste trieste italy2 department of life sciences university of trieste trieste italy3 institute for maternal and child health--irccsburlo garofolo trieste italycorrespondencemanola comar institute for maternal and child health--irccs burlo garofolo via dell'istria 65 34137 trieste italy.email funding informationirccs burlo garofolo grant number rc 2613 introduction the complex interaction between the vaginal microbiome and host physiology plays a pivotal biological role in women peterson et al.

