this finding is likely to be important since peri- odontal disease is an important cause of tooth loss in adults  moreover periodontal probing depth a measure of periodontal destruction was correlated with the duration of sle accumulated dose of prednisone and the level of systemic inflammation measured by serum c-reactive protein.we found a high prevalence of periodontitis in sle patients which was observed in almost 70 of these patients in agreement with previous studies in our study the experimental and control groups were similar regarding age and gender ruling out these poten- tial confounding factors .

we also found that bacteria commonly found in periodontal healthy such as capnocytophaga -rothia -h. parain-flunzae and streptococcus were reduced in proportional abundance in sle patients with periodon- titis and bacterial species frequently detected in peri- odontal disease were observed in higher proportions in sle patients even in periodontal healthy sites i.e.

an intervention trial in which patients are treated for peri- odontitis would further enhance our understanding as to whether periodontitis has an impact of sle disease severity.conclusionssle patients exhibit a higher prevalence of periodontal disease and increased periodontal disease severity.

microbiome 2017 534doi 10.1186s40168-017-0252-zsubgingival microbiota dysbiosis in systemic lupus erythematosus association with periodontal statusjoice dias correa1 debora cerqueira calderaro2 gilda aparecida ferreira2 santuza maria souza mendonca1gabriel r. fernandes3 e. xiao4 antonio lucio teixeira2 eugene j. leys5 dana t. graves4 and tarcilia aparecida silva16backgroundperiodontitis is a multifactorial infectious disease that af- fects tooth supporting tissues .

periodontal bone loss is initiated when there is a disruption that causes the inflammatory response correspondence equal contributors1faculty of dentistry universidade federal de minas gerais belo horizonte minas gerais brazil6departamento de patologia e cirurgia odontologica faculdade deodontologia universidade federal de minas gerais av.

antonio carlos 6627 cep 31.270-901 belo horizonte minas gerais brazilfull list of author information is available at the end of the articleto move closer to the bone inducing osteoclastogenesis and impaired osseous coupling changes in bacterial composition or systemic inflammation are thought to dis- rupt the balance between host and oral microbiota leading to destruction of periodontal tissues -.

however few studies have ad- dressed the relationship between sle and the human microbiota   or the periodontal condition in sle patients   -.

to address this issue we analyzed the subgingival microbiota in sle patients and healthy sub- jects to draw potential links among systemic immune dysregulation subgingival microbiota and periodontal disease.

this understanding might be useful in delineating strategies to treat these patients and suggests that these patients should be followed closely for peri- odontal disease based on their altered microbiota and enhanced susceptibly to develop periodontitis.resultssystemic lupus erythematosus results in higher prevalence and severity of periodontal disease demographic and clinical characteristics of subjects in- cluded in the study are presented in table sixty-seven percent of sle patients had periodontitis a significantlyhigher prevalence when compared to healthy controls 53. the prevalence of chronic periodontitis in healthy brazilians is consistent with previous reports - an interesting finding was the presence of periodontitis at a younger age in sle patients 40.5 - 10.1 years com- pared to controls 46.3 - 13.2 p  0.05. in addition 29 sle patients were younger than 35 years and from these 52 already had periodontitis data not shown.

sle subjects had increased probing depth and increased loss of clinical attachment indicating more severe peri- odontitis table periodontal probing depth was sig- nificantly correlated with most of the sle parameters duration of sle rho  0.32 accumulated dose of pred- nisone rho  0.36 and c-reactive protein level rho  0.30 p  0.05. moreover loss of clinical attachment was cor- related with duration of sle rho  0.35 p  0.05 and the systemic lupus international collaborating clinics american college of rheumatology damage index sliccacr damage index rho  0.32 p  0.05.all subjects exhibited similar oral hygiene habits fre- quency of tooth brushing and dental flossing per day.

at healthy periodontal sites in sle pa- tients there were increased proportions of a member of lachnospiraceae family unclassified lachnospiraceae a ir009 compared to healthy sites in controls p  0.05 fig.

in contrast proportions of prevotella oulorum and prevotella pleuritidis pseudomonas spptreponema maltophilum and actinomyces ip073 bacteria associated with disease were elevated at periodontal dis- ease sites in patients with sle compared to periodontitis sites of non-sle controls p  0.05 fig.

this analysis revealed that at sle healthy periodontal sites species such as prevo- tella nigrescens prevotella oulorum prevotella oris and selenomonas noxia exhibited elevated proportions fig.

porphyromonas gingivalis and selenomonas treponema vincentii fusobacterium nucleatum and fretibacterium and negative correla- tions between pathogenic bacteria and periodontal healthy-related species i.e.

positive correlations were found among periodontal pathogens t. denticola p. gingivalis fretibacterium fastidiosum and tannerella forsythia in contrast negative correlations were observed among pathogenic bacteria f. fastidiosum p. gingivalist.

