twenty-five patients completed the 12-week study and provided both subgingival plaque and crevicular fluid samples from a recently placed dental implant and a control tooth.patients in good general health receiving at least one dental implant including the placement of a transmucosal healing abutment were potentially eligible for this study.

research articlehost-microbe biologysubgingival microbiome colonization and cytokine production during early dental implant healingab paul g. johnsona car reen kokc joao c. gomes-netoc c marian j. schmida robert w. hutkinscdepartment of surgical specialties college of dentistry university of nebraska medical center lincoln nebraska usaa department of internal medicine college of medicine university of nebraska medical center omaha nebraska usab department of food science and technology university of nebraska--lincoln lincoln nebraska usacabstract little is known about longitudinal development of the peri-implant sub- gingival microbiome and cytokine production as a new sulcus forms after dental im- plant placement.

four and12 weeks after implant placement and abutment connection a dental implant and a natural tooth were sampled in 25 patients for subgingival plaque and gin- gival crevicular fluid gcf around teeth and peri-implant crevicular fluid picf around implants.

the subgingival microbiome and cytokine pro- duction were similar between teeth and implants during early healing suggesting that these profiles are driven by the patient following dental implant placement and are not determined by anatomical niche.importance dental implants are a common treatment option offered to patients for tooth replacement.

however direct comparisons between dental implant microbiome studies are very difficult due to the different microbial analysis methods used nonstandardized study designs various patient inclusionexclusion criteria and unspecified implant history with respect to when implants were placed prior to the beginning of the study .dental implants in our study showed lower microbial diversity than control teeth in agreement with other investigations  .

further- more this model can be used to study the impact of pharmaceutical interventions to potentially alter initial subgingival microbiome formation and early cytokine produc- tion and thereby possibly influence implant success.in summary in this 12-week observational study the subgingival microbiome and cytokine production were similar in teeth and dental implants during early implant healing.

furthermore future studies can potentially use this human in vivo model to examine initial subgingival microbiota development and simultaneous cytokine production following dental implant placement in patient populations with various systemic diseases and environmental risk factors for implant failure.materials and methodsstudy participants.

the control tooth was the first available tooth mesial to the implant site and was separated from the implant by at least one natural tooth in order to avoid possible influence from the adjacent developing implant sulcus .probing depths bleeding on probing and supragingival plaque were recorded for the control tooth.

all patients were assessed for any signs of infection or failure of implant osseointegration at this appoint- ment.crevicular fluid samples followed by subgingival plaque samples were collected at the dental implant and control tooth sites on patients who continued to be eligible for study participation.

this approach may be useful in future interven- tional studies to influence dental implant success.

our data showed that the subgin- gival microbiome and cytokine profile were similar for control natural teeth and dental implants at both 4 and 12 weeks after implant placement.

tooth versus dental implant.keywords cytokines dental implants microbiomenovemberdecember 2017 volume 2 issue 6 e00527-17msphere.asm.org 1ental implants are a common option offered to patients for tooth replacement.

due to the rising trend of implant placement for the management of partially edentulous patients complications associated with bone loss surrounding dental implants have become more prevalent .

past studies examining the initial subgingival colonization patterns following dental implant placement have utilized dna-dna hybridization   to investigate the differences in select bacterial species in periodon- tal and peri-implant pockets.

furthermore the concomitant longitudinal progression of cytokine production after dental implant placement has not been examined.

