because of their long evolution and history bacteria have reached a high level of protein fitting  expression of moonlighting proteins should be an alternative strategy to counterbalance the absence of alternative splicing in these organisms.sp sensing by staphylococcifurther studies revealed that the ability to detect sp is shared by other gram-positive bacteria such as s. aureus andstaphylococcus epidermidis.

to get further insights into the role of sp in promoting s. aureus and s. epidermidis virulence the effects of the peptide on the adhesion and invasion potential of these bacteria were studied.

the qs is triggered in gram-negative bacteria by n-acyl homoserine lactones and in gram-positive bacteria by cyclic or linear peptides.

after exposure to cgrp s. epidermidis is leading to an upregulation of interleukin 8 secretion by keratinocytes and rhe suggest- ing that cgrp-treated bacteria are activating an inflamma- tory response.

in fact cgrp appears to modulate the surface properties of s. epidermidis as cgrp-treated bacteria showed increased adherence to keratinocytes and reduced internalization and biofilm formation activity.

qrt-pcr arrays revealed that the response of rhe to s. aureus and s. epidermidis previously exposed to sp is notably different .

further studies based on secretome analysis and biofilm formation activities revealed that s. aureus and s. epidermidis have verydifferent responses to sp.

indeed although sp has no effect on the release of exoproteins by s. epidermidis this neuropeptide is stimulating the production of staphylococcal enterotoxin c2 by s. aureus .

staphylococci also express the moonlighting protein eftu and as in b. cereus  eftu was identified as the sp-binding site in s. aureus and s. epidermidis .

however the antimicrobial spectrum of cgrp is narrow and this peptide was shown without effect on the viability of staphylococci  .effect of cgrp on s. epidermidisvirulencewhen s. epidermidis was exposed to cgrp an important increase of cytotoxicity and virulence was observed on hacat keratinocytes and rhe .

these changes appear be associated and may be attributed to an increase in surface hydrophobicity .cgrp sensing in s. epidermidisinvestigating the cgrp sensorin s. epidermidis was leading to the identification of the chaperone dnak as a specific cgrp binding protein in this bacterium  .

bacteria can sense a multitude of neurohormones but their role in skin homeostasis was only investigated recently.

sp is without effect on the growth of gram-positive bacillus cereus staphylococcus aureus and staphylococcus epidermidis and gram-negative pseudomonas fluorescens bacteria.

mechanisms involved in the response to sp are different between bacteria although they are all leading to increased adhesion andor virulence.

many other neuropeptides are expressed in skin and their potential effects on skin bacteria remain to be investigated.

