overgrowth of c. difficile and pro- duction of c. difficile toxin result in c. difficile infection cdi.

this is an open access article under the cc by-nc-nd license  .introductionclostridium difficile c. difficile is a gram-positive spore- forming anaerobe that is colonized in 5e15 of healthy adults and 50 or more of hospital patients without any symptoms.administration of antibiotics in patients withc.

cdi was defined as diar- rhea three or more loose or watery stools per day for at least two consecutive days with either a positive c. diffi- cile toxin stool test or a positive c. difficile stool culture test and endoscopically confirmed pseudomembrane.

the stool tests were culture for enteric pathogens including salmonella shigella vibrio escherichia coli o157 campylobacter c. difficile toxin c. difficile antigen ova and parasite examination.

none of the patients relapsed within 3 months after fmt.according to the guidelines of the society for healthcare epidemiology of america and the infectious diseases soci- ety of america shea-idsatesting for c. difficile toxin is the most important means of diagnosing cdi.

in our case 2 with a negative test for c. difficile toxin the colonoscopic findings of pseudomembrane led to the diagnosis of cdi.although the use of antibiotics is the most important risk factor for cdi other host-related factors have been reported such as use of a proton pump inhibitor old age  65 years history of treatment in the intensive care unit placement of a nasogastric tube recent operation immunocompromise and obesity.in our cases all patients had the risk factors of prior use of antibiotics and age 65 years.

ebrief communicationsuccessful treatment by fecal microbiota transplantation for japanese patients with refractory clostridium difficile infection a prospective case seriesshigeki bamba atsushi nishida hirotsugu imaeda osamu inatomi masaya sasaki mitsushige sugimoto akira andohdepartment of medicine shiga university of medical science otsu japanreceived 6 june 2017 received in revised form 7 august 2017 accepted 22 august 2017available online - - - abstract we prospectively enrolled four japanese patients with refractory clostridium diffi- cile infection cdi and were treated with a single fecal microbiota transplantation fmt.

vancomycin or metronidazole is used to treat cdi but 15e30 of patients experience recurrence of symp- toms after discontinuation of antibiotics.fecal microbiota transplantation fmt can restore the diversity of the microbiota to that of healthy donors.the first randomized controlled trial of fmt for cdi was published in 2013 by van nood et al.they reported marked efficacy of fmt for 81 of patients with refractory cdi after corresponding author.

given these results the latest guidelines for the management of cdi recommend fmt for relapsing cdi.major outbreaks associated with the c. difficile nap1 027 strain have been described since 2004 first in canada followed by the usa and europe.

the exclusion criteria were compromised immunity pregnancy use of antibiotics other than for c. difficile infection andpoor general condition precluding colonoscopy.fecal microbiota transplantationdonors  10 years and 60 years of age were selected from family members or unrelated healthy volunteers and screened by stool and serological tests.

a c. difficile toxin test and stool culture were performed 3 months after fmt.

relapse was defined as diarrhea with a positive c. difficile toxin test.

except for case 2 the diagnosis of cdi was based on clinical symptoms such as diarrhea and fever and a positive c. difficile toxin test.

in case 2 clinical symp- toms and a positive stool culture for c. difficile were observed.

however testing for c. difficile toxin was consistently negative.

