reported that the turnaround period is 8 years for scn suppressive soils the egg densities of scn in soils with 6 years of monoculture history wd-6yr were not significantly different from those of ltm soils bc-38yr and fl- 30yr thus we proposed 6 to 8 years for the turnaround period.

compared with stm samples the abundance of alphaproteobacteria betaproteobacteria and actinobacteria in all samples significantly varied while gammaproteobacteria showed an increase in relative abundance in ltm soils fig.

however the differences in func- tional fungal taxa that respond to suppressiveness across var- ious locations suggested that geography also plays a key role such as the preference of purpureocillium in southern ltm soils and pochonia in northern ltm soils.

the genus purpureocillium was highly abun- dant in ltm samples except for wd where the purpureocil- lium was not detected in stm and ltm soil samples.

at the genus level the genera pseudomonas purpureocillium and pochonia which have been documented to suppress scn in earlier studies were much more abundant in ltm soils than in stm soils.

b. overall in five out of the seven locations ltm soils had a significantly lower num- ber of scn eggs compared with stm soils.

specifically the abun- dance of the genus pseudomonas was significantly higher in rhi- zosphere of soybean seedlings in ltm soils than that in stm soils and ck fig.

generally the fungal taxa were fewer in the rhizosphere of plants in ltm soils compared with stm soils.

in particular the class gammaproteobacteria in this phy- lum has shown an increased abundance in ltm soils compared with stm soils.

to this end we conducted growth room pot experiments with naturally infested scn soils collected from experimental soybean-monoculture fields located in northeast- ern china to assess the impact of short-term monoculture stm and long-term monoculture ltm cropping on the composition of rhizospheric bacterial and fungal communities and scn sup- pression.materials and methodssoil sample collection and physiochemical analysessoil samples were collected from short-term 5 years or less and long-term 6 years or more soybean-monoculture fields located in anda ad baicheng bc fulaerji fl heihe hh hailun hl sunwu sw and wudalianchi wd counties northeast- ern china.

overall the results showed little variation but no significant differences were observed in the rhizobacterial communities in ltm and stm soils samples measured by un- weighted unifrac and weighted unifrac fig.

different letters on the bars show significant differences among soil samples p  0.05.resultsbioassay of disease suppression in the soil samplesone or two soil samples from ltm fields 6-38 yr and stm fields 5 yr or less in each of seven different locations in northeast- ern china were collected fig.

the scn egg densities in all of the ltm soil samples were significantly suppressed and ranged from26.66 - 8.81 in ad-13yr to 650 - 45.82 in hl-8yr in the 100-gdry soil samples.

in all panels circles correspond to stm samples and triangles to ltm samples.

these re- sults suggest that successive monoculture cropping and envi- ronmental heterogeneity are the main driving factors to exploit the functional fungal taxa in soybean rhizosphere to induce soil suppressiveness.current results revealed that some special taxa such as pseudomonas purpureocillium pochonia and clonostachys were gradually increased in abundance with monoculture years of soybean in most of the soil samples tested and should be the core microbes commonly responding to scn suppression.figure 4. fungal richness and beta diversity of stm and ltm samples collected from seven locations in northeastern china.

