the simplest protocol using the lowest dose 2.1-2.5x1011 bacteria in 2-3 capsules without any colon purgative performed equally well in terms of clinical outcomes and microbiota engraftment.conclusions--a single administration of encapsulated freeze-dried fecal microbiota from a healthy donor was highly successful in treating antibiotic-refractory r-cdi syndrome.introductionwidespread use of antimicrobial drugs over many decades in medicine and agriculture has resulted in the emergence of increasing numbers of antibiotic-resistant pathogens which constitute one of the most urgent growing threats in modern healthcare 12. in addition antibiotics increase vulnerability to infections by lowering colonization resistance that is normally provided by the host's own microbiota 3. therefore there is a need for more targeted treatments against pathogens that can spare the host microbiota andor restorative treatments that can recover the normal composition of gut microbiota.the syndrome of recurrent clostridium difficile infection r-cdi is a common clinical challenge that captures the essential pitfalls of reliance on broad-spectrum antibiotics for treatment 4. the standard antibiotics for this infection e.g.

in addition little is known about microbiome changes that follow capsule fmt.staley et al.page 3we sought to develop the next-generation form of encapsulated fmt using a freeze-dried preparation of microbiota that could tolerate a range of temperatures to allow ease of handling and satisfy the following conditions i the freeze-drying procedure should preserve viability and diversity of the entire taxonomic spectrum of microbiota ii the resulting material should have physicochemical properties that enable standardized encapsulation iii the encapsulation procedure should not compromise the viability of microbiota and iv the microbiota should engraft into the colon and successfully treat r- cdi.

restoration of the gut microbial community structure and function via fecal microbiota transplantation fmt--transplantation of the gut microbial community from healthy donor stool--has emerged as a highly effective treatment of refractory r-cdi 56.fmt has developed rapidly over the last several years from a crude procedure involving different routes of administration of raw stool from patient-identified donors to the use of purified and cryopreserved standardized preparations of fecal microbiota from highly selected donors 7. although colonoscopic administration of fmt has the advantage of a direct application providing potentially clinical relevant diagnostic information 8 an oral preparation is preferable for many patients due to its greater ease of administration 9.encapsulated frozen microbiota can be delivered orally and results in successful treatment of r-cdi 10 however the practicality of this preparation is somewhat limited by uniformity storage and shelf-life issues.

comparison was made to frozenthawed liquid preparation with glycerol which had previously been demonstrated to retain full viability following fmt in patients 25. prompt and stable engraftment of all bacterial phyla was evident for both frozen and freeze-dried treatment groups as discussed in detail in supplementary results supplementary figures 1 and 2.clinical performance of capsule fmtthe basic characteristics of the patients in this clinical cohort were comparable to patients without underlying inflammatory bowel disease offered fmt in our program table 1 8. these patients had an average of 4-5 episodes of cdi since the initial infection and failed all reasonable attempts at breaking the cycle of r-cdi by using antibiotics alone including an extended course of tapered vancomycin per inclusion criteria.the clinical capsule fmt protocol evolved over the course of the program experience.

in addition the membrane integrity assay showed the viability of the fresh material was nearly indistinguishable compared to lyophilized fecal microbiota 60 and 56 intact cells respectively.consequently 5 trehalose was chosen as our standard cryoprotectant in the rest of the study.staley et al.page 7since flexibility in storage and handling conditions is an important issue in clinical care delivery we tested the stability of freeze-dried microbiota at different temperatures.membrane integrity of freeze-dried microbiota remained intact after 96 h of storage at room temperature 4 and -20 degc supplementary table 2. the prepared capsules were stored long-term at -80 degc chosen as the most convenient dry environment available to us supplementary table 3.finally in order to ensure that the freeze-drying protocol preserved the viability of bacteria in the preparation across the taxonomic spectrum we measured the engraftment of the preparations in germ-free mice.

the frozenthawed liquid preparations have been found to bestaley et al.page 9clinically equivalent to freshly prepared microbiota in treatment of r-cdi 73233 and indistinguishable in the kinetics of donor microbiota engraftment following administration via colonoscopy enema or nasogastric tube 25. a similar frozen encapsulated preparation has also been successful when administered orally 103435. however the practicality of the frozen liquid capsules is somewhat limited by issues pertaining to aesthetics storage transport and handling.here we described a freeze-dried fecal microbiota preparation that satisfied all our preset objectives including preservation of viability across all bacterial phyla satisfactory physicochemical characteristics a finely divided powder that enabled easy encapsulation and excellent clinical efficacy.

we also treated a cohort of r-cdi patients with a range of doses of encapsulated microbiota and analyzed the associated changes in the fecal microbiome of the recipients.results--the optimized lyophilized preparation satisfied all our preset goals for physicochemical properties encapsulation ease stability at different temperatures and microbiota viability in vitro and in vivo germ-free mice.

species and genus level resolution analysis of gut microbiota in clostridium difficile patients following fecal microbiota transplantation.

the success rate in breaking the cycle of cdi recurrence for the lowest dosage of microbiota was 93.3 2830 patients and 96.2 2526 for patients for whom the capsule treatment was their first fmt.

approximately a third of patients reported some bowel movement irregularity bloating and flatulence in the initial weeks following capsule fmt.changes in the fecal microbiome following fmtgiven the inherent microbiome complexity expected in patients with history of prior fmt we limited the characterization of the fecal microbiome to samples obtained from patients for whom the capsule treatment was their first fmt.

2017 june  1126 940-947. doi10.1038ajg.2017.6.successful resolution of recurrent clostridium difficile infection using freeze-dried encapsulated fecal microbiota pragmatic cohort studychristopher staley phd14 matthew j. hamilton phd14 byron p. vaughn md2 carolyn t. graiziger bs2 krista m. newman md2 amanda j. kabage ms2 michael j. sadowsky phd15 and alexander khoruts md12351biotechnology institute university of minnesota st paul mn usa2division of gastroenterology department of medicine university of minnesota minneapolis mn usa3center for immunology university of minnesota mn usaabstractobjectives--fecal microbiota transplantation fmt is increasingly being used for treatment of recurrent clostridium difficile infection r-cdi that cannot be cured with antibiotics alone.

we sought to develop a stable freeze-dried encapsulated preparation of standardized fecal microbiota that can be used for fmt with ease and convenience in clinical practice and research.methods--we systematically developed a lyophilization protocol that preserved the viability of bacteria across the taxonomic spectrum found in fecal microbiota and yielded physicochemicalcorrespondence alexander khoruts md university of minnesota professor of medicine 2101 6th street s.e.

microbiota preparations included frozenthawed liquid with 10 glycerol as described previously or rehydrated microbiota freezedried in 5 trehalose.

if the patients qualified for fmt they were always given the option of microbiota delivery via a colonoscopic route of administration during the consent process.

variables included i administration of a colon purgative before capsule fmt discontinued after the first four patients ii acid suppressive medications iii the dose ofstaley et al.page 5fecal microbiota which was decreased in the course of the study due to limited quantity of prepared material.clinical study designthis is a single center university of minnesota pragmatic study describing the entire clinical experience with capsule fmt from june 2014 to march 2016. failure of fmt was defined as spontaneous relapse of diarrheal symptoms and positive stool testing for c. difficile toxin b by pcr within 2 months of administration.

