as we also found a positive correlation between the concentration of acetate and the total bacterial count in grass carp gut in our previous study   it is not unlikely that the lower accessibility and even indigestibility in some cases of nutrients in sudan grass in comparison to fish meal may haveresulted in a decline in prokaryote and bacteria counts leading to a decrease in scfa levels.generally scfas provides 20-30 energy for herbivorous terrestrial animals   but given the relatively low concentrations of scfas in grass carp gut the contribution of these by-products of fermentation to the daily energy requirements of the host is probably limited which may further explain why grass carp fed on herbal diet need to eat as much as 40-100 of its body weight daily  .ethics statementno specific permits were required for the described field studies.

among these gh5 encoded cellulase in bacteria but b-glucuronidase in grass carp while pl15 encoded pectinase in bacteria but dermatan-sulfate epimerase in grass carp.

however none of the enzymes involved in the degradation of plant cell wall polysaccharides have been detected in grass carp genome searched against dbcan database yet   indirectly suggesting that gut microbiota are likely to be indispensable for digestion of plant cell wall polysaccharides in the digestive system of grass carp.

generally our results suggest a rapid adaption of grass carp intestinal microbiota to dietary shift and that microbiota are likely to play an indispensable role in nutrient turnover and fermentation.keywords gut microbiota scfas high-protein diet high-fiber diet freshwater fishintroductionthe vertebrate gastrointestinal tract is populated by a complex bacterial community which has now been considered to be an integral component of the host and exerts a strong influence on host biology  .

previous studies of the intestinal microbiota in grass carp have focused mainly on characterizing bacterial composition abundance and diversity under a certain feeding regime  .

recently comparative transcriptomics has revealed that the bacterial transcriptomes in gut are influenced by dietary nutrients and that the grass carp intestinal microbiome functions in carbohydrate turnover and fermentation which likely provides energy to both the host and microbiota  .

to determine the stability of gut bacterial community before the change in diet samples of grass carp fed on fish meal from  were included in the present study the fish were fed with fish meal for more than 2 months and reared at the same fish farm as our samples.hindgut fermentation for meeting their nutritional requirements  .

determining scfas in grass carp intestine will provide an insight into the importance ofproximate chemicalcompositiongranular fish mealsudan grassgut bacterial community in energy harvest and offer a direct evidence of microbial fermentation.1 crude fiber0.4929.00crude protein62.7610.37crude lipid5.453.75crude ash11.096.3316s rdna gene-based pyrosequencingthe v1-v3 region of the 16s rdna gene was amplified with barcoded primers 8f533r  .

permanova indicated that microbial communities before and after the diet shift were significantly different f 10.1 p  0.05. within the plant-diet samples microbial communities of day 1-7 samples differed significantly from those of day 11-33 samples f 4.1 p  0.05 but the microbial structures among day 11-33 samples were not significantly different p  0.05.temporal analysis of the reconfiguration of bacterial taxa after the dietary shiftat the beginning of the experiment day 0 the hindgut of grass carp was dominated by fusobacteria 45.8 5.9 firmicutes 33.8 9.5 and bacteroidetes 18.8 5.5. on day 1 of the dietary shift firmicutes 34.5 29.7 and proteobacteria 31.0 23.1 were the most abundant groups with cyanobacteria 18.0 16.5 and bacteroidetes 11.9 10.1 also relatively abundant.

as opposed to the high percentages observed in plant-diet intestinal samples the relative abundance of bacteroides lachnospiraceae and erysipelotrichaceae found in sudan grass was less than 0.6.further analyses indicated that 14 otus were shared by all samples six of which belonged to bacteroidesfigure 1  a relative abundance of different bacterial phyla in the hindgut of grass carp fed on fish meal day 0 and sudan grass day 1-33. sequences that cannot be classified into any known group are listed as no-rank.

the ratios of bacteroidesbacteroidetes and lachnospiraceaefirmicutes measured by qpcr were consistent with the results of 454 pyrosequencing supplementary figure s6.predicted gh and pl families in host and intestinal microbiotavenn diagram showed that 18 gh families and one pl pl15 family were shared among grass carp and bacterial groups lachnospiraceae and bacteroides supplementaryfigure s7.

the finding of fourteen otus common to all samples ranging from 27.6 to 73.9 supplementary figure s4 suggests that similar to rainbow trout oncorhynchus mykiss   core microbiota comprising of a minority of bacterial species exists in grass carp digestive system and likely plays an important role in food digestion.a significant increase in species richness from animal- diet samples to plant-diet samples  is congruent with results reported in mammals where carnivores had the lowest omnivores medium and herbivores the highest diversity    .

resultantly the transit time of feed in the intestine can be as short as 8 h    so the products of bacterial metabolism scfas in the intestine of grass carp are not expected to be highly abundant.

wu s. g. wang g. t. angert e. r. wang w. w. li w. x. and zou h. 2012.composition diversity and origin of the bacterial community in grass carp intestine.

some studies based on bacterial isolation and enzyme assays have confirmed the presence of bacterial activities of cellulase amylase protease and lipase in the intestine    .

