adhering to the tooth hundreds of bacterial species colonize and co-exist forming complex associations of microorganisms known as dental biofilm or dental plaque reviewed in kolenbrander et al.

it is likely that the weight of sugars consumption overridesbacterial composition in the dental biofilm.3  diet and caries the keystone role of sugars as early as 1922 a study conducted in preschool children at- tempted to prove the theory that dental caries is initiated by acidfermentation of sticky foods which adhere to the teeth rypins 1922. results from this early research failed to find a direct rela- tion nonetheless.

when the biofilms and the dental slabs were an- alyzed a reduction in biomass eps formation but not in the number of viable cells was observed for both dental substrates.

journal of the american dental association 137 190-196.burt b. a.  szpunar s. m. 1994. the michigan study the relationship between sugars intake and dental caries over three years.

journal of dental research 63 2-5. hayes c. 2001. the effect of non-cariogenic sweeteners on the pre- vention of dental caries a review of the evidence.

1980. bacterial specificity in the etiology of dental caries.international dental journal 30 305-326.huang c. b. alimova y. myers t. m.  ebersole j. l. 2011. short- and medium-chain fatty acids exhibit antimicrobial activity for oral microor- ganisms.

scandinavian journal of dental research 97 392-400.lingstrom p. van houte j.  kashket s. 2000. food starches and dental caries.

journal of dentistry 41 1236-1244.rypins r. 1922. studies on the relations of types of diet to dental caries a statistical survey of children under school age relating to two dietetic theories on the etiology of dental caries.

journal of dental research 4 405-433.saido m. asakura k. masayasu s.  sasaki s. 2016. relationship between dietary sugar intake and dental caries among japanese pre- school children with relatively low sugar intake japan nursery school shokuiku study a nationwide cross-sectional study.

archives of oral biology 65 72-76.stephan r. m. 1940. two factors of possible importance in relation to the etiology and treatment of dental caries and other dental diseases.

the role of sugars and the other nutrients and their potential impact on cariesra giacamancariology unit department of oral rehabilitation and interdisciplinary excellence research program on healthy aging piei-es university of talca talca chilecorrespondencerodrigo a. giacaman 2 norte 685 talca chile.email funding informationcomision nacional de investigacion cientifica y tecnologica grantaward number fondecyt 11406231  introduction there is a perception that dental caries is decreasing worldwide.

this review provides an updated view of diet on caries but including nutrients that may play an anticaries effect and the role for other com- monly consumed food and drinks components.2  current concepts in caries etiopathogenesis and the role of the dental biofilm from the early 60s caries was understood as a multifactorial in- fectious and transmittable disease.

indeed it has been argued that only selectively killing s. mutans cells would restore the normal dental mi- crobiota for a sustained caries-protective effect eckert sullivan  shi 2012. the role of s. mutans in caries causation has been critically examined and novel concepts in caries etiopathogenesis have been proposed.

according to this theory dental caries is an imbalance of the resident microflora due to an enrichment within the bacterial community of the oral pathogens caused by frequent environmental situations of low ph.

this imbalance is called dysbiosis whereby ubiquitous microorganisms of the dental biofilm become more virulent by bacterial competition kreth giacaman raghavan  merritt 2016 kuramitsu he lux anderson  shi 2007. some of the acidogenic species that are better endowed to thrive under acidic conditions tend to prevail over their competitors leading to a ph drop which in turn favors demineralization of enamel and dentin fejerskov 2004. bacteria that act as commensal under healthy conditions may become pathogenic pathobionts when the ecological balance is broken either by changes in gene expression or in the critical numerical threshold of the species.

