to screen possible sls in gastrointestinal tract git of mice extracts of cecal luminal content of 17 weeks old c57bl6n mice pooled sample of n  7 mice were analysed using ft-icr-ms in deprotonated mode.

thus sl11 sl12 sl2 sl32 sl41 sl42 sl62 and sl91 were significantly increased in saff and lard fed mice while sl72 was only significantly increased in saff fed mice compared to nc fed mice fig.

in contrast the ratio sl12sl2 was much higher in spf mice indicating that complex gut microbiota in spf mice have additional bacterial strains that could be liable to the production of sls.discussionthis study revealed that unusual sulfonolipids sls are a part of cecal luminal content collected from mice.

a sls are absent in germfree gf white n 7 mice comparing spf mice magenta n 6 and mono-colonized mice with alistipes sp.

then mice were euth- anized with isoflurane sigma aldrich st louis mo usa the luminal content of cecum of each mouse was collected snap-frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -80 degc.germfree mono-colonized and specific-pathogen-free mice.

therefore 100 ul of an overnight culture in wcab medium was orally administered approximately 108 cfumouse to 8weeks old gf mice n 8. colonization status in mice was checked every week by cultivation of collected fecespellets on wca plates.

in cecal samples the average ratio of sl11sl2 was 1.03 with significantly higher values in lard mice com- pared to saff and nc mice fig.

similarly the ratio of sl12sl2 has a mean of 0.91 and was significantly decreased in saff mice compared to lard and nc mice fig.

all identified sls were exclusively produced in spf mice magenta as compared to germfree mice gf white fig.

moreover the ratio of sl11sl2 or sl12sl2 was on average 0.65 and significantly increased in spf mice compared to gf mice fig.

strain cc-5826-wt-bac dsm 27924 tur- quoise and we have observed a significant appearance of sls in the cecum of mono-colonized mice as compared to gf mice fig.

the sl called sulfobacin b was isolated characterized and was significantly increased in mice fed with high-fat diets.

thus by analysing the pure cultures of the proposed bacterial strains we have confirmed the presence of sls in those bacteria while they were absent in germfree mice leading to the conclusion that bacteria in cecum are crucial for sls generation in-vivo.materials and methodsanimals.

all mice were fed a normal chow autoclaved ssniff soest germany rm-h for spf or m-z v1124-300 for germfree animals ad libitum and were sacrificed by carbon dioxide.

mice n  15 were made germfree gf by hysterectomy institute for laboratory animal science hannover germany.

