it has been proposed that srb likely contribute to colonic pathology for example ulcerative colitis uc.the interaction of srb with the human colon and intestinal epithelial cell lines has been investigated using desulfovibrio indonesiensis as a model mono-culture and in a co-culture with e. coli isolate and with srb consortia from human biopsy samples.we find that d. indonesiensis whether as a mono- or co-culture was internalized and induced apoptosis in colon epithelial cells.

while the numbers of srb are similar for uc patients and healthy controls differences were noted in the proliferative rates of bacterial colonies enriched from these samples .other studies confirmed that samples from uc patients andhealthy controls harbor the same level of srb but there are sig- nificant differences in the structure of the srb community between the two groups .

using antibodies against eps of srb we also identified srb on samples from ulcerative colitis patients where they were found in association with the surface of intestinal epithelia c. these results suggested that the epithelial barrier was broken in the patients and the colonic epithelium was infil- trated with srb bacteria.fig.

furthermore the antibody raised against exopolysaccharides eps ofindonesiensis cross reacted with the srb population from uc patients but not with the srb combi- nation from non-uc controls.

although the involvement of srb in the initiation andor mainte- nance of uc in both humans and animals has been proposed  the exact mechanism by which srb could contribute to uc etiology remains unknown.

the left panel aceg and i shows in green srb staining with anti-eps antibodies the right panel bdfh and j shows the double staining of srb green and the nucleus blue of eukaryotic cells and bacteria.

indonesiensis cons patient sample bacteria consortium enriched in srb isolated from intestinal mucosa biopsies from ulcerative colitis patient cons control con- sortium enriched in srb isolated from intestinal mucosal biopsies from healthy in- dividuals.

the asterisk represents a significant difference relative to the 1x dose inoculum value.antibodies against eps of d. indonesiensis discriminate between srb isolated from ulcerative colitis patients and control samplesthe polyclonal antibody against eps of d. indonesiensis was used to recognize srb in bacteria consortium isolated in biopsies from the intestinal mucosa of ulcerative colitis patients and control groups by the dot blotting assay.

furthermore most of the reported data were obtained from fecal samples  which do not necessarily provide a reliable readout for srb infection in the colon.we show here that srb can interact with the human epithelial intestinal cell membrane and are cytotoxic for those cells.

the apoptosis induced by srb was significantly higher when the cells were co-infected with e. coli commensal bacteria and these find- ings were confirmed when the srb and e. coli were obtained from uc patients.

besides lps of srb was associated with microbiota inflammatory properties while e. coli lps induces increase in plasma h2s levels in mice during inflammation  what prompted us to consider the lps as an additional signalling molecule responsible for the srb effects on intestinal epithelial cells.

in this direction the infec- tion by yersinia enterocolitica induces chronic bowel inflammation with dysbiosis favoring srb proliferation and treatment using probiotics could prevent the microbiota alterations changes and inflammation showing the importance of dysbiosis of the gut microbiota for development of ibd .finally recently we described that germ-free mice colonization with desulfovibrio indonesiensis or with a human srb consortium from patients with colitis induced changes in colonic architecture with increased cell infiltration in the lamina propria and upregu- lation of il-17 and treg profiles of cytokine productioncell acti- vation in cells from mesenteric lymph nodes .

what favors the hypothesis of srb involvement in initiation of ibd.conclusionwe propose that srb could contribute to initiation of ibd by impairing the barrier function of the intestine andor impairing thehealing response to local inflammation.dot blotting results showing the percentage of bacterial samples labeling using anti-eps of d. indonesiensis antibody.

sulfide-producing prokaryotes including sulphate-reducing bacteria srb constituting different genera including the desulfovibrio are commonly detected within the human microbiome recovered from fecal material or colonic biopsy samples.

the srb combi- nation obtained through enrichment of biopsies from uc patients induced apoptosis of a human in- testinal epithelial cell line.

