these bacteria have been previously reported to show decreased relative abundances in chronic pancreatitis model mice however the relative abundance of lactobacillus reuteri was over-represented in the cecum samples of the pancrelipase-treated mice and that of lachnospiraceae was under-represented in the transverse colon and stool samples of the pancrelipase-treated mice.

in our study the relative abundance of h. pylori was found to be very low 0.0035 in the intestinal microbiotas of the mice and showed no significant changes upon pancrelipase treatment.furthermore several previous studies using chronic pancreatitis model mice have reported increases and decreases in the relative abundance of several bacterial taxa in the model mice relative tothat in the control mice .

overall the administration of pancrelipase did not induce microbial changes akin to those observed in chronic pancreatitis patients or its model mice with the sole exception of the under- representation of lachnospiraceae.future studies on intestinal microbiotas derived from chronic pancreatitis model mice and patients with or without pei need to be conducted to better understand the mechanism by which pan- crelipase ameliorates the symptoms of chronic pancreatitis.to the best of our knowledge our study is the first to reveal that oral supplementation of pancrelipase significantly alters the in- testinal microbiota in mice.

we hypothesized that pert exerts its effect by modifying the intestinal microbiota and showed that there were significant differences in the compositions of mouse intestinal microbiotas between pancrelipase-treated and control samples.of the significant differences in the relative abundances of bacterial taxa between the pancrelipase-treated and control sam- ples the difference in the relative abundance of akkermansia muciniphila belonging to verrucomicrobia was the most striking.

3. bacterial taxa showing significantly different relative abundances between the control and pancrelipase-treated samples collected from the cecum c transverse colon t or stool s. relative abundances in the control ctrl and pancrelipase-treated panc samples are represented by blue and red bars respectively.

pei caused by impaired secretion of pancreatic digestive enzymes due to loss of intact pancreatic acinar cells  represents one of the most frequent complications of chronic pancreatitis .pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy pert is widely used in the treatment of chronic pancreatitis patients exhibiting pei- associated symptoms and improves fat and protein absorption and serum nutritional parameters in a significant population of these patients .

for interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend the reader is referred to the web version of this article.a few studies have previously investigated the composition of intestinal microbiotas in chronic pancreatitis patients or in chronic pancreatitis model mice .

however it should be noted that whether pancrelipase treatment induces the colonization of this bacterium in chronic pancreatitis patients and beneficial effects remains to be determined.four other bacteria were also over-represented in the pancrelipase-treated samples.

furthermore the fact that the relative abundances of a. muciniphila and l. reuteridtwo microorganisms that are known to be beneficial to the maintenance of the intestinal bar- rierdincreased upon pancrelipase administration in the intestinal microbiota of the mice suggests that new possibilities for the treatment of chronic pancreatitis such as probiotics and fecal transplantation should be considered.conflict of interestpancrelipase was provided by ea pharma co. ltd.acknowledgementsthis work was in part supported by jspskakenhi 17k09396 jspskakenhi no.

akkermansia muciniphila a key beneficial bacterium in the intestinal tract showed a higher relative abundance in the pancrelipase-treated samples than in the control samples.

lactobacillus reuteri a widely used probiotic bacterium known to relieve intestinal inflamma- tion also showed a higher relative abundance in the pancrelipase-treated samples.

a major difference was the increased relative abundances of verrucomicrobia in the pancrelipase-treated sam- ples.

the resulting three-dimensional plot showed that the spatial distribution of the pancrelipase-treated samples was distinct from that of the control samples.bacterial taxa showing significant changes in their relative abundancesby re-grouping the 2692 otus according to their taxonomic classifications we obtained a taxonomy table recording read counts for 106 bacterial taxa for each samples.

higher relative abundance in the pancrelipase-treated samples.

lower relative abundance in the pancrelipase-treated samples than in the control samples.

