101 2843-2853. le d. t. tran t. l. duviau m. p. meyrand m. guerardel y. castelain m. et al.

antonie van leeuwenhoek 76 139-155. doi 10.1023a100203690 6922tarazanova m. beerthuyzen m. siezen r. fernandez-gutierrez m. m. de jong a. van der meulen s. et al.

thomsson k. a. holmen-larsson j. m. angstrom j. johansson m. e. xia l. and hansson g. c. 2012. detailed o-glycomics of the muc2 mucin from colon of wild-type core 1- and core 3-transferase-deficient mice highlights differences compared with human muc2.

10 2235-2245. zuercher a. w. weiss m. holvoet s. moser m. moussu h. van overtvelt l. et al.

front microbiol 8800. castelain m. duviau m. p. canette a. schmitz p. loubiere p. cocaign- bousquet m. et al.

castelain m. duviau m. p. oxaran v. schmitz p. cocaign-bousquet m. loubiere p. et al.

this mini-review gives an overview of the beneficial effects reported for l. lactis the mucus composition and function the different surface proteins discovered in l. lactis and involved in muco-adhesion and the different complementary approaches and tools used to uncover their role.beneficial effects of lactococci in the gitthe main beneficial effects reported for natural or recombinantl.

these three proteins have different structures  with three mucbp domains in mbpl protein from dairy l. lactis bgkp1   two mub domains in muc protein from vegetal l. lactis til448   and one mucbp domain in aj8907570 protein from dairyl.

until now three different gene clusters specifying sortase-dependent heterotrimeric pili have been identified in several l. lactis strains one chromosomal present in all l. lactis strains   and two plasmid-encoded others in plant   and dairy   strains respectively.

pili were also visualized by electron microcopy in four other l. lactis plant or clinical natural isolates but the genes involved in their synthesis were not identified  .aggregation factor aggla plasmid-encoded aggregation factor aggl was characterized in l. lactis bgkp1.

however a mucus- secreting subpopulation of goblet cells from ht29 cell population ht29-mtx has been obtained after growth adaptation of ht29 cells to anticancer drug methotrexate mtx   and this cell line is increasingly used to investigate the muco-adhesive properties of l. lactis   .biophysics-based concepts and toolsbiophysics-based tools have provided new in vitro insights into the interaction mechanisms between l. lactis and mucins .

for l. lactis ibb477 the percentage of specific adhesive events was high 20 in comparison with its low-adhesive counterpart l. lactis mg1820 about 5  .

later studies revealed the combined contribution of chromosomal and plasmid-encoded cell-wall proteins mucbp-big3 containing protein and proteinase prtp respectively in the muco-adhesive properties of ibb477   .a further work on the plant isolate l. lactis til448 enabled to elucidate the l. lactis muco-adhesive phenotype based on the respective contribution of pili and mub protein  .

more recently it was shown that the cell-wall proteinase prtp albeit contributing to in vitro muco-adhesion of l. lactis ibb477 probably through non-specific interactions could not confer a selective advantage to this strain in the gut of conventional c57bl6 mice  .conclusioncertain l. lactis strains synthesize surface proteins with muco-adhesive properties.

proteomics 9 61-73. bermudez-humaran l. g. aubry c. motta j. p. deraison c. steidler l. vergnolle n. et al.

