antibodies to aiv ndv and c. psittaci has not been found in blue-fronted amazon par- rots a. aestiva in bolivia.serologic testing in wild parakeets aratinga weddellii and brotogeris sanctithomae in peru were neg- ative to antibodies for c. psittaci and ndvand four species of wild mexican parrots showed negative serologic tests for aiv and ndv.the results of this study indicate that the red-tailed ama- zon population located in rasa island is not infected by c. psittaci aiv wnv or ndv and the data obtained is supported by previous studies involving wild psittacine species.

colonies were not isolated from four cloacal samples of parrots in pvc nests and from two oropharyngeal samples and one cloacal sample of parrots in artificial wooden nests.the prevalence of bacterial species obtained from cloacal and oropharyngeal samples according to the nest can be observed in there was no influence of the type of artifi- cial nest in the birds' microbiota p  0.05. the nestlings in the natural nests were not compared because of the small number of samples.all samples tested for antibody detection and by pcr for c. psittaci and rrt-pcr for aiv ndv and wnv were negative.discussionthis study provides health baseline parameters for the red- tailed amazon parrot in the state of parana brazil.

swab samples were vortexed for 2 min and centrifuged at 20000 g for 30 min at 8 c. the supernatant was discarded and dna extraction was performed using a dna purification kit nucleospin tissue - macherey-nagel germany according to manufacturer's instruction.the cycling was performed with a program of 5 min at 94 c 40 cycles at 94 c for 1 min 50 c for 1 min and 72 c for 2 min and a final extension at 72 c for 10 min producing a 300-bp fragment.positive and negative controls were included and the pcr products were analyzed by electrophoresis on 1.5 agarose gels stained with gelred biotium.real-time rt-pcrone step rrt-pcr was carried out for detection of aiv ndv and wnv.

all samples were kept frozen at -40 c until analysis in the laboratory.microbiological analysessamples were plated on brain heart infusion and incubated for 24 h at 37 c. subsequently they were stored in 30 glycerol solution at -20 c. when thawed the samples were inocu- lated by streaking method on blood and macconkey's agar media and incubated at 37 c for 24 h for the bacteria grow.

all data were verified for normal distribution by the shapiro-wilk test.were sampled in three artificial wooden and one pvc nest two birds were sampled in the same nest in five artificial wooden and three pvc nests in all other nests just one nestling was sampled per nest.cloacal and oropharyngeal swab samples were collected from 58 nestlings for c. psittaci detection and from 50 nestlings for aiv ndv and wnv detection.one hundred eighteen bacterial colonies were isolated from 73 samples of 40 nestlings totaling 91.25 7380 of pos- itive samples for enterobacteria.

fund- ing for this project was in part provided by the sao paulo research foundation - fapesp 201113821-7 201305485-2 and 200905994-9.r e f e r e n c e sand has been reported in captive parrots on outbreaks and wild prevalence studies.in the state of parana c. psittaci'sdna was detected in 1.2 of the samples from 117 free-livinga.

specific primers and probes were used for wnv detection.the cycling was performed in an abi 7300 pcr system applied biosystems with a program of 45 c for 20 min reverse transcription 95 c for 10 min 40 cycles of 95 c for 15 s and 60 c for 45 s.statistical analysisan anova analysis at p  0.05 was carried out to determine the influence of the type of nest on prevalence of bacteria in the nestlings by using portal action software.

cloacal and oropharyngeal swabs samples were collected from 23 birds from artificial wooden nests 15 birds from pvc nests and 2 birds from natural nests for microbiological analysis.

much of the population of parrots is found in protected areas in parana but the lack of supervision in the region enables the cutting of important treespecies for reproduction shelter and feeding of the parrot.besides this these birds probably have less anthropogenic interference less contact with human beings and domestic animals and suffer less stress by environmental disorders when compared to birds from other areas such as pantanal where modifications in the habitat are largely due to thethe presence of wnv aiv and ndv in parrots has not been detected in brazil and is also consistent with the results of the present study.

the 74 birds had estimated age between 25 and 56 days averaging 42 days and weighed between 275 and 540 g averaging 420 g.cloacal and oropharyngeal swab samples were collected from 40 nestlings for microbiological analysis 23 individuals from 12 artificial wooden nests 15 parrots from 10 pvc nests and two parrots from two natural nests.

the samples were placed in tubes and refrigerated for up to 24 h. the tubes were centrifuged for 5 min to obtain plasma which was frozenat -40 c until analysis for c. psittaci.cloacal and oropharyngeal swab samples were collected from nestlings for microbiological analysis and kept refriger- ated in stuart transport medium up to 48 h until analysis in the laboratory.

the influence of age adult and young and environment captive and wild could explain the difference in the diversity of bacterial community between the wild nestlings sampled in the present study and others researches.in brazil the detection of gram-negative bacteria has been reported in asymptomatic wild a. brasiliensis nestlings in parana and sao paulo coast.

version 2015-4 2015. available from accessed 03.04.2016.c c cc c c  c .

b razi li an j ournal of m i crob i ology 4 8 2 0 1 7 747-753veterinary microbiologysurvey of pathogens in threatened wild red-tailed amazon parrot amazona brasiliensis nestlings in rasa island brazilfrederico fontanelli vaz atricia pereira serafinirosangela locatelli-dittrich rafael meureredison luiz durigonansen de araujoluciano matsumiya thomazelliatiana omettoelenise angelotti bastos sipinskirafael meirelles sezerbanmaria cecilia abbudtania freitas rasoa department of veterinary medicine federal university of parana curitiba parana brazilb national center for bird conservation and research chico mendes institute for biodiversity conservation estacao ecologica de carijosflorianopolis santa catarina brazilc department of microbiology biomedical sciences institute university of sao paulo sao paulo brazild society for wildlife research and environmental education curitiba parana brazile department of pathology school of veterinary medicine and animal science university of sao paulo sao paulo brazila r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c tarticle historyreceived 4 april 2016accepted 23 march 2017available online 3 june 2017 associate editor joao araujo jr.keywordsavian influenza virus chlamydia psittaci microbiology newcastle disease west nile virusthe red-tailed amazon parrot amazona brasiliensis is a threatened species of psittacine bird that inhabit coastal regions of brazil.

pathogenicity and antimicrobial resistance tests could be used to assess the real risks of these bacteria to the red-tailed ama- zon parrots' health in future evaluations.concerning the nests the excretions of the birds can accu- mulate over time increasing exposure levels of nestlings to fecal bacteria.

