overall the lowest increase in con- centration density at room temperature was observed in the starswabr transport system which only allowed a 1e2 log increase in gbs and e. faecalis b and d and a 2e3 log increase in e. coli over 24 h c. e. faecalis and e. coli had a 2e3 and 5 log increase respectively in both amies transport systems at 24 h c and d. replication was limited to 1 log increase in all three transportsystems at 4 oc for c. albicans gbs e. coli and e. faecalis through96 h data not shown.although all microorganisms were assessed over 96 h it is acknowledged that clinical specimen transport generally occurs within 48 h to a central laboratory for processing.

vaginae was observed at 48 h for the fisherfinestr transport system a and b. the concentration density of p. amnii decreased 2 logs in starswabr at 48 h whereas it was nonviable after 48 h in maxv  and less than 24 h in fisherfinestr c. swabs transported in the fisherfinestr transport system had a greater than 5 log decrease in g. vaginalis d. microaerophilus p. timonensis p. bivia and p. uenonis at 48 h when held at room tem- perature deh.

maxv  maintained viability of all organisms through 96 h with the exception of l. iners and m. hominis to 72 h g. vaginalis to 48 h and all three prevotella species and p. uenonis to 24 h .

triplicates of each transport system were stored at room temperature or 4 oc for 24 h 48 h 72 h or 96 h. following the designated storage times serial 110 dilutions were made from each swab and 100-ml of each dilution was subsequently used to inoculate columbia cna agar with 5 sheep blood cna becton dickinson macconkey ii agar mac becton dickinson sabdex sabouraud dextrose agar with chloramphenicol sab hardy diagnostics santa maria ca and rogosa rog prepared in house for the aerobeyeast mixtures.

by contrast when the transport media were held at 4 oc viability of all microorganisms was maintained through for 96 h in starswabr 72 h in maxv  and 24 h in fisherfinestr transport .commensal aerobes and yeast can replicate in transport media at room temperature  and this replication can mask the pres- ence of fastidious microorganisms.

although g. vaginalis and p. uenonis were the only microorganisms nonviable in all three transport systems by 96 h at room temper- ature d and h when held at 4 oc through 96 h viability was maintained to 2 log decrease in starswabr and maxv  and 3 log and 4 log decrease in fisherfinestr for g. vaginalis andp.

with the use of centralized laboratories shipping times can exceed 24 h h and transport conditions can vary.

starswabr maintained the viability of all organisms at room tem- perature through 96 h with the exception of p. amnii to 48 h andg.

fisherfinestr maintained the viability of all organisms through 96 h with the exception oftable 1a comparison of starswabr maxvth and fisherfinestr transport systems for maintenance of viability at room temperature and 4 oc up to 96 h.microorganismtime h viability sustained104 cfuml bacterial vaginosis associated bacteria bvab mixture 1 contained l. iners 104 cfuml atopobium vaginae 105 cfuml peptoniphilus harei 103 cfuml prevotella amnii 104 cfuml and mycoplasma hominis 105 cfuml bvab mixture2 included gardnerella vaginalis 106 cfuml dialister micro- aerophilus 104 cfuml and mobiluncus curtisii 104 cfuml bvab mixture 3 included p. timonensis 105 cfuml p. bivia 105 cfuml and porphyromonas uenonis 105 cfuml.

uenonis to 24 h and did not maintain the viability of all three prevotella species for even 24 h .

only the starswabr transport system maintained the concentration density of c. albicans for 96 h at room temperature a. none of the three transport systems maintained the density of gbs e. coli and e. faecalis within one log of the original concentration when held for 24 h at room temperature b c 1d.

hominis at 48 h and l. jensenii at 24 h in maxv  data not shown.the viability of all microorganisms was maintained better when all three transport media were held at 4 oc .

all three lactobacillus species evaluated were maintained for 48 h in all three media with the exception of l. iners in maxvth at 24 h and fisherfinestr at 48 hfig.

for the prevotella species evaluated the starswabr transporter main- tained integrity at 4 oc for 24 h whereas samples in maxv  transporters showed 1 log decrease in p. amnii at 24 h and sam- ples in fisherfinestr transporter had a 1 log decrease in bothp.

the manufacturer's instructions supplied with the starswabr maxv  and fisherfinestr transporters recom-mend that specimens containing fastidious anaerobes be processed for culture within 24 h e. although none of the package in- serts from the three transport systems recommend transport at4 oc the results of the present study suggest that significant loss of viability of fastidious anaerobes will occur within 24 h and repli- cation of commensal aerobes will also occur without sample refrigeration.

