for the in vitro calcium mobilization assays standard error of the mean sem is depicted while all dissolution results report standard deviation sd.resultsa dairy-derived peptide exhibits ghrelin receptor agonist activity in vitrothe activity of the whey-derived hydrolysate fhi-2571 on the ghrelin receptor was shown using intracellular ca2 mobilization as a measure of downstream ghrelin receptor signalling activation in hek293a cells human embryonic kidney cells stably expressing the ghrelin receptor tagged with an enhancedfig.

reduction in fhi-2571-mediated ghrelin receptor activation following exposure to acidic ph confirms the need for an oral delivery mechanism control  fhi-2571 not exposed to acidic ph rfu  relative fluorescence units.loss in peptide activity is observed for the whey-derived fhi-2571  confirming the requirement for a protective film coat to minimise exposure to gastric acid before progression to in vivo efficacy studies.aqueous-based ethylcellulose dispersion yields a mechanically weakfilm coatingusp type 1 basket dissolution studies were carried out in both simulated gastric conditions simulated gastric fluid sgfsp ph 1.2 in order to assess the release profile of peptide from the pellets.

sustained-release multiparticulates for oral delivery of a novel peptidic ghrelin agonist formulation design and in vitro characterizationken howick ryan alam barbara chruscicka dalia kandil dara fitzpatrickaoife m. ryan john f. cryan harriet schellekens brendan t. griffina school of pharmacy university college cork cork irelandb department of anatomy  neuroscience university college cork cork irelandc food for health ireland university college cork cork irelandd apc microbiome institute university college cork cork irelande department of chemistry analytical and biological chemistry research facility abcrf university college cork cork irelandf department of food  nutritional sciences university college cork cork irelanda r t i c l e i n f o keywordspelletfilm coating sustained-release bioactive peptide ghrelina b s t r a c t there is an impetus to provide appropriate sustained release oral delivery vehicles to protect biofunctional peptide loads from gastric degradation in vivo.

this is supported by sem images  which show a distinct porous nature to the cross sec- tionedaqueous-based film coat b compared to a more complete non-permeable structure seen in the ethanolic-based film coat d. consistent with the impervious nature of the coat show in sem cross- sections fhi-2571 -loaded pellets coated with an ethanolic solution of ec displayed near-zero order release in both usp type 1 basket and usp type 4 flow-through dissolution setups  .due to the drawbacks associated with organic-based coating solu-tions an aqueous -based coating approach to achieving an appropriate release profile of active peptide was desirable.

3. dissolution study of aqueous-based ethylcellulose and fhi-2571 hydrolysate pellets.usp type 1 basket dissolution studies 50 rpm 37.5 degc showed a burst release in si- mulated conditions with  80 release over the first hour in both uncoated and coated fhi-2571 hydrolysate pellets following exposure to simulated gastric fluid sine pepsin sgfsp ph 1.2 a. graph represents three independent experiments carried out in tri- plicate.

finally 50 ml of each sample was re- moved and added to 950 ml of ca2 assay buffer and neutralization of acidic ph confirmed before samples were added to cells.in vitro dissolution testsusp type 1 basket dissolution studiesdissolution testing usp type 1 was performed using a basket-type dissolution apparatus distek inc. model 2100c north brunswick nj usa with 500 ml of both simulated gastric fluid sine pepsin sgfsp ph 1.2 and simulated intestinal fluid sine pancreatin sifsp ph 6.8 as dissolution media.

after sampling an equal volume of dissolution medium was added to the dissolution vessel.usp type 4 flow-through dissolution studiesan erwekar flow-through apparatus model dfz 720 erweka gmbh germany equipped with a hkp 720 piston pump and 22.6 mm diameter cells was used to perform usp type 4 dissolution studies.

interestingly the maximal response attained for fhi-2571 hydrolysate is higher compared to ghrelin emax  150. efficacy of both compounds was normalised to the maximal response of the positive control 3.3 fbs emax  100. critically the con- centration response curve shows that the fhi-2571 hydrolysate has ghrelin receptor agonist activity while the un-hydrolysed parent whey protein concentrate wpc fails to elicit appreciable activity in the same assay a. furthermore no ca2 influx was observed in wild-type hek293a cells hek293a-wt not expressing the ghrelin receptor when exposed to the fhi-2571 hydrolysate while treatment with control fbs resulted in a non-specific maximal intracellular ca2 mobilization in this cell line b indicating the specificity of fhi- 2571 activity on the ghrelin receptor.ph susceptibility of fhi-2571the fhi-2571 hydrolysate was exposed to varying degrees of acidicph for a time representative of minimum gastric residence time in the fasted state minimum 30 min .

considering the high loading of peptide in our system 33 this problem is compounded leading to pellet swelling and film fracture.here we demonstrate the mechanical integrity of two alternative film coating approaches which both provide time-dependent release of a bioactive peptide in the in vitro setting.

pellets displayed burst release of the peptide with  80 release over the first 60 min.

5. scanning electron microscope sem images of whole pellets.sem images of uncoated a aqueous ethylcellulose ec coated b ethanolic ec coated c and dual-coated pellets d.investigation of peptide release in ph transfer modela ph transfer model was utilised in order to investigate whether there was any appreciable difference in release when intestinal ph was introduced to the pellets after 2 h exposure to sgfsp ph 1.2 condi- tions .

predictably the aqueous ec-coated pellets display a burst release of peptide with  80 release in the first hour.

the aqueous-based ec coated pellets de- monstrated a lag time prior to disintegration where the frequency minimum is observed at 780 s. this result indicates that the aqueous- based ec pellets do not remain intact in an acidic environment and further support findings from previous dissolution experiments see a.ghrelin receptor activity post-encapsulationin order to quantify the impact of processing conditions on bioac- tivity of the peptide cargos activity of the encapsulated peptide in vitro was reassessed.

notably the dual-coated ec pellets retain a sustained release profile after the tran- sition from acid ph to intestinal ph ph 6.8. in contrast to the release profiles observed under usp type 1 conditions the ethanolic-based ec coat also displays a faster release rate compared to the dual-coat.

therefore we sought to develop a simple high loading sustained release delivery vehicle to protect the ghrelinergic peptide from acid exposure in the gastric compartment and upper small intestinal breakdown to facilitate in vivo proof-of-concept studies.firstly the need for a gastro-protected delivery vehicle was vali-dated by exposing fhi-2571 to acidic ph which predictably abolished the bioactivity of this compound on the ghrelin receptor in a pro- gressive manner .

