within this order nanofrustulum shiloi is known to be a common endosymbiont species in a. lobifera this phylotype of microalgae was ubiqui- tously found in high abundance across all three popula- tions of a. lobifera suggesting that a. lobifera associates with this species regardless of continental shelf location.

lobifera from the gbr a. lobifera specimens col- lected from different habitats display substantially dif- ferent responses when exposed to experimental conditions such as increased temperature and nitrate as they have the capacity to assimilate different types of eukaryotic and prokaryotic associates accord- ing to their local habitat.conclusionswe demonstrated that a. lobifera specimens are able to establish strong but not specific symbiosis with their eukaryotic endosymbionts.

the aim of our study was to utilise next-generation se- quencing to characterise the eukaryotic and prokaryotic microbiome of amphistegina lobifera which is a common lbf species in reef environments   collected from different reef sites along a natural cross-shelf gradient of temperature and nutrients in the gbr.resultsphotosynthetic microbes associated with a. lobiferathe analysis of 18s rrna of photosynthetic taxa sequences showed that specimens of a. lobifera host one dominant species of bacillariophyta otu denovo5251 which was consistently distributed across reef sites.

microbiome of a. lobifera collected from different reef sites the microbial community of a. lobifera consisted of 13218 identified otus.

further supporting the notion that individual a. lobifera can maintain partnership withtable 2 percentage  of contribution of bacterial taxa that primarily accounted for differences in a. lobifera collected from different reef sites.

however bacterial communities previously detected in sediment samples along a cross-shelf gradient differ from those found in our study indicating active interaction of bacterial taxa with a. lobifera.phyla such as actinobacteria which is commonly as- sociated with freshwater runoff showed a strong positive correlation with a. lobifera collected from the inner-shelf reef site.

lobifera to colonise a wide range of environmental conditions.in summary a. lobifera from the inner-shelf showed the lowest diversity of diatoms and the highest diversity and abundance of prokaryotic symbionts.

diatom communities from inner-shelf a. lobifera differ from those found in the mid- and outer-shelf permanova n  15 f214 11.95 p  0.0001 additional file  table s4.

similar- ity percentage simper analysis identified otu denovo7357 and otu denovo7981 as the main phylo- types driving the dissimilarity among samples table comparison of 18s rrna sequences using the ncbi blast database identified these two otus as belonging to the orders naviculales and bacillarialles respectively as endosymbionts present in a. lobifera specimens col- lected from the mid- and outer-shelf.

there was a distinct difference in the microbial community of a. lobifera among reef sites permanova n  14 f213  2.23 p  0.0002 fig.

simper analysis showed that the dissimilarity between a. lobifera collected from the inner-shelf and both mid- and outer-shelf sites was due to the presence of a different lower raking taxa within firmicutes actinobacteria and bacteroidetes whereas the dissimilarity between mid- and outer-shelf sites was mainly due to the presence of different firmi- cutes and g-proteobacteria taxa table .

taxa such as d-proteobacteria and actinobacteria are positively correlated with inner-shelf samples with firmicutestable 1 percentage  of contribution of bacillariophyta taxa that primarily accounted for differences in a. lobifera collected from different reef sites.

.analysis of the core microbiome showed that a- proteobacteria was the most consistent bacterial taxa found in a. lobifera across different reef sites.

in contrast to the eukaryotic photo- autotrophs a. lobifera from the inner-shelf site showed the highest diversity of bacterial taxa 231 otus found exclusively in the inner-shelf core whereas the lowest di- versity of bacterial taxa was found in inner- and outer- shelf samples.

this study identified a small group of bacteria that are ubiquitous across three populations distributed broadly across the gbr shelf system and revealed that the common and abundant bacterial taxa associated with a. lobifera within each population drove differences in the community structure of bacteria at different reef locations.

