did the symbiont acquisition facilitate a host plant shift or did the host plant shift select for the acquisition of novel symbionts a temporal correlation between a dietary shift of the host and the origin of a new nutritional symbiosis strongly implicates the symbiont in the observed change of its host's ecology .

while many symbiont replacements may enhance host fitness simply by escaping the 'evolutionary rabbit hole' of increasingly degenerate symbiont genomes rather than providing novel ecological traits to the host  some affect the host's ability to adapt to different nutritional resources .

importantly reciprocal symbiont exchange between the two plataspid species megacopta punctatissima and m. cribaria resulted in the complete reversal of the bugs' performances on their respective host plants indicating that the symbiont strain not the host genotype governs host plant specialization .

disrupting the host-symbiont association and quantifying the con- sequences for host fitness andor genomic analyses reveal nutritional benefits provided by the derived symbiont that iv complement novel nutritional challenges of the host after switching to a new diet.the advent of next-generation sequencing has greatly facilitated the reconstruction of molec- ular host phylogenies and significantly helped to identify symbiotic bacteria and characterize their genome sequences.

if sufficiently common easily accessible andor stably 250tddiftransferred between host generations acquisition of a facultative symbiont should relax the selective pressure on the obligate symbiont to maintain nutritional pathways that were previ- ously essential to the host .

interestingly a population genomic analysis of symbionts associated with invasive m. cribaria in the usa that infest legume plants revealed a high degree of similarity to the symbiont genome of native japanese m. punctatissima suggesting that a horizontal symbiont transfer from m. punctatissima to m. cribaria occurred naturally and conferred the pest status to the invasive bug .similar to the plataspidae the urostylididae another pentatomoid family harbor a gammap- roteobacterial symbiont 'candidatus tachikawaea gelatinosa' that possesses the biosyn- thetic capabilities for provisioning essential amino acids and vitamins to the host .

these symbionts are vertically transmitted between host generations and usually supplement nutrients to their insect host that are deficient in the host's plant diet .

however whether or not these and other shifts in symbiotic associations that have been reported for auchenorrhyncha indeed reflect altered nutritional demands of the host has not yet been investigated and should be studied in the future.symbiont-enabled exploitation of bryophyte host plants by coleorrhyncha the moss bugs suborder coleorrhyncha are associated with the intracellular symbiont 'candidatus evansia muelleri' gammaproteobacteria that is closely related to carsonella and portiera the obligate endosymbionts of psyllids hemiptera sternorrhyncha psyllidae and whiteflies hemiptera sternorrhyncha aleyrodidae respectively .

however a convincing case for the host's adaptation to a novel ecological niche by acquiring new symbionts can still be made by providing evidence for the following points i a comparative molecular andor histological characterization of the symbiotic associations across host taxa reveals a shift in symbiont identity andor localization ii mapping thistransition onto the hosts' phylogeny identifies the evolutionary origin of this association iii functional assays e.g.

concordantly such shifts require the insect host to either replace the current symbiont with a better-suited one or alternatively acquire an additional symbiont to overcome the new challenges.

while sulcia was retained in most host lineages since the origin of the symbiosis about 270 million years ago  the betaproteobacterial symbiont has been repeatedly lost or replaced .the clade consisting of 'candidatus nasuia deltocephalinicola' in deltocephaline leafhoppers  'candidatus zinderia insecticola' in spittlebugs  and 'candidatus vidania fulgor- oideae' in fulgorid planthoppers likely represents the ancestral betaproteobacterial co- obligate symbiont partner of sulcia .

for example intracellular symbionts that form long-term mutualistic associations with their host insects d9cf23ftdian contribute important nutritional benefits but are limited in their ability to secrete products into the gut lumen to break down complex compounds or detoxify plant toxins as they are spatially confined to the cytoplasm of host cells .

first due to their confinement to the insect host and strong population bottlenecks during transmission to the next host generation obligate endosymbionts experience strong genetic drift resulting in an accumulation of slightly deleterious mutations muller's ratchet .

in some cases switches in symbiotic associations may not result in the 231tddifshift to a new ecological niche but rather allowthe host to replace or metabolically com- plement the existing symbiont.replacement or the coexistence of both microbes and their host in a tripartite dependency .

here we review the known ecological and evolutionary implications of symbiont gains switches and replacements and identify future research directions that can contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of symbiosis as a major driving force of ecological adaptation.symbiosis as a source of evolutionary innovation in plant-insect interactionssymbiotic associations with microbes are ubiquitous in nature and represent major driving forces of evolutionary innovation by conferring novel phenotypic traits on the host thereby allowing for the expansion into previously inaccessible ecological niches and subsequent lineage diversification .

