Our previ- ous study using stable isotope labeling indicates that E. mundtii is also the most metabolically active member in the gut micro- biota  which suggests that this symbiotic species plays important roles.We found that although E. mundtii is a major constituent of the gut microbiota across generations suggesting the vertical trans- mission mode of this symbiont other ubiquitous environmental enterococci such as E. faecalis and E. casseliflavus often started out at high density in early instar when E. mundtii had not yet es- tablished abundant populations inside the gut .

Next we focused on characterizing the anti- microbials produced by E. mundtii SL both in vitro and in vivo.Antimicrobial Production Inhibitory Spectrum and IdentificationIn contrast to the E. mundtii type strain in which the best growth rate was observed at pH 7.0 E. mundtii SL grows well in high pH media.

E. mundtii DSM4838 is a type strain.B-D B Typical results of agar diffusion assays using E. faecalis SL C E. casseliflavus SL and D E. mundtii SL as the indicator.

Af- ter treatment with a plasmid-curing procedure some E. mundtii SL colonies E. mundtii SL Mun- lost their plasmids and the bacteriocin biosynthesis gene which consequently failed to induce clear zones of inhibition of lawns of E. faecalis SL Figure S6.Cell Chemical Biology 24 66-75 January 19 2017 71To test our hypothesis that mundticin KS contributes to the demise of E. faecalis and E. casseliflavus in the gut flora we further assessed bacteriocin gene expression in vivo.

We found that although mundticin KS was not detected in the first instar probably due to the low titer of E. mundtii cells at this very early time point mundticin KS was highly expressed from the second instar in parallel with the increase of E. mundtii population inside the gut  A.

It has been demonstrated that removing the dominant E. mundtii from the larval gut can cause increased susceptibility of the spruce budworm to pathogens suggesting that E. mundtii plays a protective role .

The same batch of larvae was firstly cured of their native E. mundtii then was randomly divided into two groups and re-introduced of different E. mundtii strains.

The larval gut re- associated with the E. mundtii SL strain could not be in- fected by ingested E. faecalis left panel whereas the larval gut reassociated with an E. mundtii strain lacking the mundticin biosynthesis gene does not inhibit E. faecalis right panel.

faecalis SL E. casseliflavus SL E. mundtii SL strain and E. mundtii type strainDSM4838 were cultivated in de Man-Rogosa-Sharpe MRS broth X925.1 Carl Roth at 30oC without shaking.

ArticleSymbiont-Derived Antimicrobials Contribute to the Control of the Lepidopteran Gut MicrobiotaGraphical AbstractHighlightsd The gut bacterium E. mundtii of S. littoralis produces an antimicrobial peptided Mundticin KS strongly inhibits some of the competing and potentially pathogenic organismsd Mundticin KS expresses in vivo and can impair pathogen colonizationAuthorsYongqi Shao Bosheng Chen Chao Sun Keishi IshidaChristian Hertweck Wilhelm BolandCorrespondence Y.S.

