2016 was observed after exposure to cro but was attenuated in the presence of ribaxamase.in addition to causing microbiome damage antibiotic exposure fosters bacterial resistance the review on antimicrobial resistance 2014 francino 2016 with world- wide overuse of antibiotics contributing to the global threat of multidrug-resistant pathogenic organisms the review on antimicrobial resistance 2014 francino 2016. antibi- otic stewardship programmes have been implemented that focus on the prudent use of antibiotics including reducing administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics and antibiotic cocktails and promoting more precise targeted bactericidal strategies centers for disease control and prevention 2013. in this study ribaxamase was shown to reduce the emergence of antibiotic resistance genes in the pig faecal microbiome.

1. the cro levels at the 19-h time point were below the limit of detection of the assay0 5 lg ml-1 indicating that the cro half-life in pigs is less than the 8-10 h reported for humans rocephin genentech usa inc. 2015. these data confirm that rib- axamase did not alter serum antibiotic levels in the pigs similar to data obtained in the dog cro pharmacokinetic studies kokai-kun et al.

with ribaxamase the gut microbiomes were not significantly different from pretreatment and antibiotic resistance gene frequency was not increased.conclusion ribaxamase mitigated cro-mediated gut microbiome dysbiosis and attenuated propagation of the antibiotic resistance genes in pigs.significance and impact of the study damage of the microbiome can lead to overgrowth of pathogenic organisms and antibiotic exposure can promote selection for antibiotic-resistant micro-organisms.

2000. irrespective of the mechanisms of selection for antibiotic resistance cro treatment increased the abundance of antibiotic resistance genes while ribaxamase attenuated this enrichment.initially ribaxamase is intended for use with iv beta- lactam antibiotics.

2016.efficacy studies with jejunal-fistulated dogs treated with ribaxamase andor iv cro showed that cro was elimi- nated from the intestine in the presence of ribaxamase and that ribaxamase remained biologically active for at least 8 hours the duration of antibiotic release into the intestine kaleko et al.

to verify that ribaxamase did not affect systemic cro levels in the pigs animals that received cro alone and animals that received croribaxamase had blood drawn on day 2 of antibiotic treatment which corresponds to day 3 of ribaxamase delivery.

5a showed cro was associated with higher abundance of antibiotic resistance genes post-treatment day 4 compared with cro ribaxamase microbiomes.

analyses revealed pigs treated with cro dis- played increased frequency of antibiotic resistance genes compared with animals receiving croribaxamase.antibiotic resistance genes enriched in microbiomes of pigs treated with cro encoded beta-lactamases compo- nents of multidrug efflux transporter systems and the phosphotransferase aminoglycosidestra mcarthur et al.

the red boxes display bacterial taxa diminished in the cro cohort at days 4 and 8 and maintained in the croribaxamase cohort as compared to pretreatment days -7 and -4. the yellow boxes display bacterial taxa enriched in the cro cohort at days 4 and 8 and their diminished abundance in the presence of ribaxamase croribaxam- ase cohort as compared to pretreatment days -7 and -4. the colour gradient key displays a linear scale of the relative abundance.from day 4 to day 8 in the cro cohort while no decrease was observed in the croribaxamase group.

ceftriaxone serum levels were not statistically different in the antibiotic-alone and antibiotic  ribaxamase groups indicating ribaxamase did not alter systemic antibiotic levels.

2017 and a double-blind placebo-controlled phase 2b study designed to assess the ability of ribaxamase to prevent c. difficile-associated disease and antibiotic- associated diarrhoea by protecting the gut microbiome from cro-mediated changes is in progress clinicaltrials.- gov 2016.in addition to causing dysbiosis antibiotics can lead to other deleterious consequences such as promoting antibi- otic resistance in micro-organisms the review on antimicrobial resistance 2014 francino 2016. the human gut microbiota is considered to be an established reservoir of antibiotic resistance that with frequent antibiotic exposure increases the potential for widespread acquisition and propagation of resistance francino 2016. ribaxamase is expected to reduce the selective pressure on the gut microbiota to lessen this risk.

in this study the number of kmers per sample that were assigned to bacterial taxa ranged from 160 000 to 2 500 000 with an average of approxi- mately 600 000. similarly the community resistome the collection of antibiotic resistance genes in the micro- biome was also identified using the cosmosid inc. bioinformatics software package to query unassembled sequence reads against the cosmosid curated antibiotic resistance gene database in an analogous manner to that described for bacterial species identification.

microbiome population profiles prior to antibiotic treatment day -4 were compared to those after antibiotic treatment day 4 and day 8 using a likelihood ratio test la rosaet al.

results of the microbiome analyses demonstrate that ribaxamase reduces cro-mediated impact on the microbiome.ribaxamase reduces antibiotic resistance gene propagationto determine if ribaxamase affected the propagation of antibiotic resistance faecal dna whole-genome shotgun metagenomic data were analysed for the presence of antibiotic-resistant genes as a measure of the population of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in the faecal microbiomes.

heatmaps of identified antibiotic resistance genes in the faecal microbiome of each animal compared before and after antibiotic treatment fig.

