growth of bacteria in the mrs medium supplemented with the prebiotics glucose gos rfo inulin or beta-glucan was measured using the automated growth analyzer bioscreen c oy growth curves ab ltd. for 72 h.doi10.1371journal.pone.0168587.g001dose optimization in testing trialsignificant differences in hatchability of eggs injected in ovo were observed between two doses of prebiotics 2 mg egg-1 and 5 mg egg-1.

growth curves of these bacteria in the presence of different prebiotics were estimated using an auto- mated growth analyzer bioscreen c oy growth curves ab ltd. the total volume of the well in the bioscreen plate was 400 ml and was filled with a test solution comprising 360 ml of mrs medium  and 40 ml of inoculum of each lactobacillus bacteria.

effects of dietary prebiotics probiotic and syn- biotics on performance caecal bacterial populations and caecal fermentation concentrations of broiler chickens.

relationship of dietary antimicrobial drug administra- tion with broiler performance decreased population levels of lactobacillus salivarius and reduced bile salt deconjugation in the ileum of broiler chickens.

in our previous experiments we demonstrated that a single injection of prebiotic or synbiotic in ovo could modify the entire spectrum of phe- notypic traits in growing broiler chickens including growth traits  immune organ struc- ture and development  histological composition of the intestinal tissue parameters of meat quality  digestive potency of the pancreas  and molecular changes in the cecal tonsils spleen  and liver a. dunislawska personal communication.

2015 95 19-29. doipmidawad wa ghareeb k abdel-raheem s bo hm j. effects of dietary inclusion of probiotic and synbiotic on growth performance organ weights and intestinal histomorphology of broiler chickens.

doipmidptak a bedford mr swiatkiewicz s zyla k jo'zefiak d. phytase modulates ileal microbiota and enhances growth performance of the broiler chickens.

2015murshed m abudabos a. effects of the dietary inclusion of a probiotic a prebiotic or their combina- tions on the growth performance of broiler chickens.

effect of a synbiotic biominrimbo on growth performance traits of broiler chickens.

bacterial growth in the reference medium was defined as having the optimal logarithmic growth curve and as such it was treated as the reference growth curve for further comparisons.

it is also documented that in chickens as well as in other animals the effectiveness of prebiotics increases when they are used as part of a synbiotic .effective modulation of the git microbiota depends on the method and timing of bioactive compound delivery .

2015 76 975-82. doipmidmadej jp stefaniak t bednarczyk m. effect of in ovo-delivered prebiotics and synbiotics on lymphoid- organs' morphology in chickens.

in ovo injection of prebiotics and synbiotics affects the digestive potency of the pancreas in growing chickens.

in the previous trials we observed changes in broiler performance traits bwg and fce introduced by in ovo treatment with prebiotics and synbiotics.

2011 55 465-469.bogucka j dankowiakowska a elminowska--wenda g sobolewska a szczerba a bednarczyk m. effects of prebiotics and synbiotics delivered in ovo on broiler small intestine histomorphology during the first days after hatching.

