in such a context as the environmental conditions are not controlled one needs to ensure that those would be suitable for the microbial consortium in terms of temperature ph nutrients.. a suggested solution to control the spatial distribution and influence the environmental condition of the degrading consortium would be the construction of porous alginate beads lee and mooney 2012 containing the microbial consortium haferburg and kothe 2010 and dispersing them in the contaminated environment soil groundwater... it has been shown that packing microbes in such beads does not impact the survival nor the performance of the microorganisms although one limitation of such constructs might be a reduced bioavailability of the pollutants to the consortium scherer et al.

finally with a continuous flow most of the perturbations would occur during the initiation phase until a steady-state is reached under constant input concentrations and environmental conditions and the level of fluctuations would therefore be limited.conversely a pulsing regime would generate periodic perturbations and considerations of microbial member robustness and efficiency under fluctuating concentrations become very important.

1998 rosche and foster 2000 foster 2006.discussion and outlooktests of the proposed concepts of spatially linked microbial consortia would invariably involve a set of experiments to provide proof of concept of key elements of the slmc that under prescribed conditions the slmc would support assembly of incompatible members or would outperform mixed communities.

the method would be based on the tolerance of the microorganisms involved to those preservation procedures.in the case of dried or lyophilized cells distilled water would be added into each module to rehydrate the cells and allow them to regain their full activity before starting the fluxes of media gitaitis 1987. at the beginning the system would go through a synchronization phase where the species contained in the different operational elements would adapt to the changingenvironmental conditions until a stable phase or steady regime is reached.

prospective microbial consortia and proposed spatial configurations will be illustrated and preliminary calculations highlighting the advantages of slmc over co-cultures will be presented followed by a discussion of challenges and opportunities for moving forward with some designs.keywords synthetic ecology microbial ecology microbial consortia consortia assembly modular consortia engineering consortia engineering habitatsmicrobial consortia efficient and metabolically versatile associationsmicrobes are present in all environments on our planet and are often forced to interact within close proximity and share resources.

in line with the unified microbiome initiative umi which aims to discover and advance tools to understand and harness the capabilities of earth's microbial ecosystems we propose in this concept paper to capitalize on ecological insights into the spatial and modular design of interlinked microbial consortia that would overcome limitations of natural systems and attempt to optimize the functionality of the members and the performance of the engineered consortium.

such a degree of freedom would even allow the assembly of microbial species with incompatible requirements aerobeanaerobe acidophilealkalophile thermophilemesophile halophilenon-halophile...moreover by separating and concatenating the members of a microbial consortium we reduce the average exposure of its members to the intermediate compounds and by-products secreted by the other species which could potentially inhibit their growth or activity.

b artificial microbial consortium selection of the members based on their ability to accomplish part of a bioprocess of interest convert substrate a to product e. the reduced need for compatible environmental conditions that slmc offers would allow the combination of microbial species with incompatible requirements.

images sources flickr seedling hydrothermal vent ocean networks canada lake vostok us national science foundation forest g. crutchley and arizona state university estelle couradeau biocrust.culture microbial consortia as well as their populations and their interactions.selection of compatible consortium membersthe members of an artificial microbial consortium would be selected for their ability to perform one or multiple steps of a desired biochemical process and interact by passing to each other the intermediate products figure 1b.

a potential strategy is to engineer spatially partitioned niches by segregating in separate modules the bioprocesses that require distinct environmental conditions while connecting them to allow the microbial species to interact figure 1c.this compartmentalization strategy would increase control over the system consortium such that each element would offer specific settings compatible with the consortium member.

whether the cells are cultured in bioreactors or in a microfluidic platform connections between the modules would allow the microbial species to interact by controlled exchanges of mediaand intermediate products figure 2. hollow fiber bridges would for example connect the bioreactors while keeping the cells confined to their respective batch and avoid cross- contamination manjarrez et al.

acetatepotential applicationsin addition to potentially improving the productivity of current co-cultures by providing more suitable growth conditions to each member of a microbial consortium slmc would dramatically expand the range of applications by allowing the combination of microorganisms that typically are not found in natural systems due to incompatibility of environmental conditions or occur very rarely in nature table 1.nitrogen removalanaerobic ammonium oxidation anammox is an important process in the marine nitrogen cycle that converts ammonium nh and nitrite no- under strictly anaerobic conditions42lactate ethanol... similarly due to the ease by which nutrientscould be added in line it would be advantageous to prefer upstream strains with simple nutritional requirements in trace elements salts.. to limit interferences with the metabolism of downstream microorganisms.

2006. additionally as any environmental change would mostly impact a single species rather than the whole community and thus avoid the complex population dynamics that would occur in a co-culture homeostasis could be more readily achieved.resetting a module after an adverse eventwhen culturing different microbial species in separate but connected functional units external contamination as much as internal cross-contamination is a major concern.

such constructs would be made possible by the modularity inherent to slmc which would facilitate the assembly of microbial consortia of increasing complexity by the addition of extra modules.

2017.the medium would also offer some flexibility as achieving a medium composition capable of maintaining multiple species would not be necessary since most modules would ideally contain monocultures.

