note that symbol shape indicates sample type soil sludge1 and sludge2 and symbol colors distinguish unamended and spiked samples across panels c d and e. all data are for primer set 515f806r data for primer set 008f355r are provided in supplementary figures s13 and s14.as observed for sample e above several spike-ins ap- peared to be sensitive to varying read trimming settings figure b which contributed to the reduced correlations between predicted and modeled read counts when more ag- gressive read trimming was applied figure a. therefore we sought to evaluate the presence of otus with low read quality in our environmental 16s-seq datasets.

c base call error rates for read 1 r1 read 2 r2 and merged reads r1r2 following default read quality trimming condition 'qtrim515' see materials and methods.

symbols show data from two technical replicates.slope constraint were variable among the spike-in stan- dards consistent with the variable detection rates observed for sample e figure b. taken together these data ver- ified that quantitative detection of the spike-in standards was reliable validating their further use as quantification standards in 16s-seq.strong linear relationships between spike-in read count and input amount were also observed for aggregated dose-response curves based on multiple spike-in standards with varying input concentrations in a single mixture figure b. the constant relationship between spike-in amount and read count was further evident from the slopes of the negative binomial glm fits relating read count to spike-in amount 1.08 0.04 supplementary table s8.

un- less stated otherwise reads were processed with default read trimming 'qtrim515' and count data generated based on de novo otu clustering using the uparse pipeline at a nominal identity threshold of 97. spike-in standards ac- counted for 16.5 2.9 of total reads in a given library supplementary table s9.as shown in figure a for primer set 515f806r nor- malized read counts for the 100 spike-in mix were highly consistent with normalized read counts in the spiked en- vironmental dna extracts.

we then generated three datasets with varying degrees of quality trimming namely 'noqtrim' no qual- ity trimming 'qtrim515' read trimming by trimmomatic with options slidingwindow515 minlen75 and 'qtrim520' read trimming by trimmomatic with options slidingwindow520 minlen75.

graphics were prepared are provided in the supplementary methods.data availabilityall raw read data have been deposited in the ncbi sequence read archive sra under accession number sra434741 bioproject srp076838.

read quality trimming as expected resulted in lower error rates and substantial variability in error rates was observed de- pending on read direction template and sequenced region supplementary figure s4.

read data were processed with default quality trimming settings 'qtrim515' and count data were gen- erated by tallying reads mapped against the reference se- quences at a global identity threshold of 97 after removal of putative chimera by uchime.we inspected dose-response characteristics of individual spike-ins by plotting read counts after adjustment for un- even sequencing depth by single rarefaction 4600 spike-in reads per library as a function of spike-in amount across the four sb samples.

as shown in figure a for primer set 515f806r mild read processing 'noqtrim' and 'qtrim515' yielded strong correlations between ob- served and predicted read counts with a narrow distribu- tion of pearson's r values among libraries.

a scatter plot of pearson's correlation coefficients of the linear relationship between modeled and observed spike-in read counts across libraries subjected to read processing with varying quality thresholds.

c plot illustrating the effect of read processing on read counts for a spiked environmental microbiota sample.

data represent the percentage of reads removed as a result of read processing as compared to read counts in the 'noqtrim' dataset.

for panels c d and e data represent the mean and standard deviation of three technical replicates.of the performance of otu clustering and also accommo- date emerging algorithms aimed at achieving sub-otu or single-nucleotide level resolution in 16s-seq read data anal- ysis .the observation that certain spike-in displayed compar- atively low sequencing quality also highlighted the need to better understand systematic biases and errors in illumina read data .

the spike-in standards captured a range of read qualities and may hence serve as a useful reference for fine-tuning read processing parameters with the recognition that this will dependentupon the 16s rrna gene region sequenced as well as the sequencing technology used.the spike-in standards can be readily adopted for a range of uses in addition to routine quality control and quan- tification.

the spike-ins represent full-length 16s rrna genes containing artificial variable regions with negligible identity to known nucleotide sequences permitting unambiguous identification of spike-in sequences in 16s-seq read data from any microbiome sample.

