i n f o c u s systematic review of the effect of enteral feeding on gut microbiota in preterm infantswanli xu michelle p. judge kendra maas naveed hussain jacqueline m. mcgrath wendy a. henderson and xiaomei congcorrespondencewanli xu ms rn school of nursing university of connecticut 231 glenbrook road storrs ct 06269- 4026.keywordsdonor human milk feedingformulalong-chain polyunsaturated fatty acidsmicrobiome mother's own milk prebiotics probiotics systematic reviewabstractobjective to examine the effect of feeding type on microbial patterns among preterm infants and to identify feeding factors that promote the colonization of beneficial bacteria.data sources pubmed cochrane database of systematic reviews scopus and the cummulative index of nursing and allied health literature were thoroughly searched for articles published between january 2000 and january 2017 using the keywords gut microbiome gut microbiota enteral microbiome enteral microbiota premature infant preterm infant extremely low birth weight infant elbw infant very low birth weight infant feeding breast milk breastfeeding formula prebiotic probiotic and long chain polyunsaturated fatty acid.study selection primary studies written in english and focused on the association between enteral feeding and gut microbiome patterns of preterm infants were included in the review.data extraction we independently reviewed the selected articles and extracted information using predefined data extraction criteria including study design study participants type of feeding type and frequency of biospecimen e.g.

mothers' own breast milk feeding influenced the compositional structure of preterm infants' gut microbial community and increased diversity of gut microbiota compared with donor human milk and formula feeding.

the results of the use of prebiotics and probiotics varied among studies however the majority of the researchers reported positive bifidogenic effects on the development of beneficial bacteria.conclusion mothers' own milk is considered the best form of nutrition for preterm infants and the gut microbial community.

in general greater abundance of beneficial micro- biota for example bifidobacterium and lacto- bacillus is more desirable whereas pathogenic bacteria including escherichia coli e. coli enterobacter citrobacter proteus klebsiella and candida are less desirable in the promotion of gut health among preterm infants.the alteration or imbalance of microbiota also called dysbiosis or dysbacteriosis can disrupt human wellness particularly among vulnerable infants born prematurely 37 weeks gestational age.

dysbacteriosis has been associated with increased risk of colic  and necrotizing enterocolitis in preterm infants  and can lead to immune disorders e.g.

preterm infants especially very-low-birth-weight infants are susceptible to an imbalanced gut microbial community as theresult of gut immaturity .

given this potential it is important to consider that fatty acid composi- tion and bioavailability differ among feedings provided to preterm infants on the basis of the type of feeding they are provided.

standard preterm elemental .

oligosaccharides well known as beneficial prebiotics for preterm infants are contained in human milk human milk oligosaccharides hmos which has been shown to facilitate the growth of bifidobacteria and lactobacillus  .

the benefits related to probiotic use include reduction in pathogenic bacteria increase in beneficial bacteria improvement of food tolerance and decreased incidence of nosocomial sepsis and necrotizing enterocolitis in preterm infants  .feeding has been recognized as one of the most influential factors to contribute to the early development of the gut microbiome because milk is the first food to be introduced to the digestive tract in infancy  .

in addition milk is often supplemented with prebiotics and probiotics to increase the colonization of beneficial bacteria and to promotethe purpose of this systematic review was to examine the association between feeding types and the development of the gut microbiome in preterm infants.the maturation of the gut community.

the purpose of this systematic review was twofold to describe the patterns of microbial communities in infants with different feeding types and to identify the optimal feeding types to promote the colonization of beneficial bacteria among preterm infants.methodseligibility criteria of the literatureto conduct this systematic review we followed the guidelines in accordance with the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses prisma statement for reporting systematic reviews .

articles were written in english and published after january 2000. no restrictions on study design were imposed.we targeted research conducted with preterm infants who were born at or less than 37 weeks gestational age were recruited after birth to 30 days of postnatal age and were followed up for 2 weeks or longer.

studies of preterm infants with congenital anomalies severe periventricular intraventricular hemorrhage who underwent ma- jor surgery or had histories of positive drug exposure were excluded.

keywords used included gut microbiome gut microbiota enteralmicrobiome enteral microbiota premature infant preterm infant extremely low birth weight infant elbw infant very low birth weight infant feeding breast milk breastfeeding and formula.

