e-mail address abbreviations used in this article bcl b cell lymphoma gc germinal center hu human mesln mesenteric lymph node pc plasma cell slo secondary lymphoid organ tfh t follicular helper.copyright c 2017 by the american association of immunologists inc. 0022-17671730.00 responses 6 8 9. these studies bring into question the critical source of il-4 that initiates the development of ige-producing b cells during a type 2-dominated immune response to hel- minth infection.t cell-dependent ig class switching occurs at various loca- tions within the slos including the b cell follicle gc and interfollicular regions 10 11. in addition to the production of ige during type 2 immune responses igg1 class switching is also promoted by il-4 signaling and is the dominant ig produced in mice and humans 12. although the generation of igg1- producing pcs generally requires the gc reaction the b cell differentiation program required for ige-producing cells is less clear 13 14. recent studies using transgenic ige reporter mice have identified ige cells within the gc and the subsequent detection of affinity mature ige suggests that this reaction con- tributes to the ige-secreting pc compartment 7 13 15 16. however the kinetics of ige gc cell formation and serum ige detection during helminth infection parallels the detection of both ige pcs in the medullary sinuses a region relatively dis- tant from gcs and b cell follicles 16. these results bring into question the requirement for the gc reaction in ige pc de- velopment and suggest that extra-gc t cell-b cell interactions may play an important role in ige production.

the journal of immunology 2017 199 244-252.he production of ige is a fundamental feature of the type 2 immune response that contributes to protective immu- nity to helminth infection and venomous challenge but italso exacerbates pathological allergic disease 1. il-4 secretion by cd4 t cells has been shown to be indispensable in ige pro- duction by b cells that have matured into plasma cells pcs broadly referring to all ab-secreting cells including plasmablasts 2 3. understanding the nature of t cell help required for ige production and the cellular requirements that orchestrate ige re- sponses could provide important insight into mechanisms regu- lating type 2 immunity.cd4 th2 cells that express the lineage-specific transcription factor gata-3 are potent producers of type 2 cytokines including il-4 il-5 and il-13 at sites of inflammation and infection 4. given their function and important contribution to anti-helminth immunity and allergic disease these cells have been defined as the source of il-4 that drives ige production 5. however ige class switching is initiated in the secondary lymphoid organs slos a location where few il-4-producing th2 cells can be identified 6 7. additionally we and others have shown that the dominant il-4-producing cell in the inflamed lymph nodes of helminth- infected mice are tfh cells a subset of b cell lymphoma bcl- 6-expressing cd4 t lymphocytes that migrate deep into the b cell follicle and promote germinal center gc formation and select high-affinity b cell clones for long-lived humoral immunedepartment of microbiology and immunology microbiome and disease tolerance centre mcgill university montreal quebec h3a 2b4 canadareceived for publication january 26 2017. accepted for publication april 27 2017.this work was supported by canadian institute of health research operating grant mop-130579 and by a grant from mcgill university faculty of medicine to i.l.k..i.l.k.

for example it has been reported that ige production is uncompromised follow- ing helminth infection of mice bearing il-4-deficient cxcr5 t cells suggesting that th2 cell-derived il-4 is sufficient for ige production 30. however cxcr5 deficiency in cd4 t cells does not impair initial t cell-b cell interactions pc formation or bcl-6 upregulation by activated cd4 t cells 31 32. in contrast recent studies using a model of airway allergy demon- strated impaired serum ige titers in tfh but not th2 cell- deficient hosts 29 33. using methods to definitively ablate tfh cell differentiation or il-4 specifically derived from tfh cells our results support and extend the latter findings by demon- strating that in a setting of natural parasitic helminth infection tfh cells provide a critical source of il-4 to support ige pc development as well as orchestrate a robust th2 response in the inflamed lymph nodes.as bcl-6 has been shown to be intrinsically required for the generation of both tfh and gc b cells we compared mice lacking this transcriptional repressor in either the t or b cell compartments to delineate the relative importance of these lymphocyte subsets in the ige pc response during helminth infection.

taken together these data demonstrate that bcl-6 de- letion in cd4 t cells does not compromise the generation of cytokine-producing th2 cells during helminth infection.ige plasmablast development requires tfh cellsthe ability to produce ige has been classically attributed to il-4- producing th2 cells 5. however given that the ige pc response is initiated in the slos and that tfh cells are the dominant source of il-4 in the mesln following h. polygyrus bakeri infection we hypothesized that tfh not th2 cells would be the primary source of il-4 that drives the ige pc response.

collectively our results indicate that even in the setting of robust th2 cell differentiation tfh cells are critical for driving the primary ige response during helminth infection.the gc reaction is not required for ige switching and ab productionthe observed loss of ige pc generation in 4getkn2.tdbcl6 mice may be due to a compromised gc reaction an indirect consequencethe journal of immunology247figure 2. deletion of bcl-6 in cd4 t cells results in the loss of il-4- producing tfh cells.

the latter result is consistent with previous studies de- scribing ige cells arising early during h. polygyrus bakeri in- fection in extra-gc regions of the draining mesln as well as rapidly accumulating in the lymph node medullary regions fol- lowing immunization 16 20. although our results contrast with prior in vitro studies demonstrating that bcl-6 directly represses ige production by b cells the in vivo requirements to generatethe journal of immunology249figure 4. loss of tfh cells im- pairs ige pc development.

2015. biology of ige production ige cell differenti- ation and the memory of ige responses.

indeed pc re- sponses that occur independent of gcs not only represent a significant source of ab-secreting cells but they also depend on b cell lymphoma bcl-6 t cells 17. with the aim of under- standing the cellular requirements for the primary ige response we hypothesized that tfh cells provide a nonredundant source of il-4 required to initiate ige class switching during infection with the parasitic helminth heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri.

total serum ige was quantified using a mouse ige elisa ready set-go kit ebioaffymetrix.generation of bone marrow chimerasbone marrow cells from 4getkn2.cd4cre-bcl-6flfl mice were mixed with either 4getkn2 or kn2kn2 bone marrow cells at a 11 ratio and 5 3 106 total cells were injected i.v.

data were analyzed by a two-tailed student t test or one-way anova as appropriate using the graphpad prism program version 6. a p value 0.05 was considered significant.resultsenteric helminth infection elicits an early il-4-dependent ige plasmablast responseinfection of mice with the enteric nematode h. polygyrus bakeri induces a robust type 2 response characterized by an early ige extrafollicular pc and gc response within the meslns that drain the active site of infection and contributes to protective immunity upon reinfection 20 21. consistent with prior studies h. polygyrus bakeri infection led to the induction of a distinct b220lowcd138 pc population within the meslns at 2 wk postinfection fig.

both igg1 and ige pcs peaked at 2 wk postinfection and paralleled serum ige titers fig.

1b-d. this kinetic is consistent with previous reports of infection with nippostrongylus brasiliensis anotherparasitic helminth that demonstrated an ige response that rapidly contracted 13 14 16.as il-4 producing cd4 t cells are essential for the production of ige we hypothesized that the kinetics of il-4 production in the mesln would coincide with that of the pc response 3. using il-4 dual reporter mice where gfp denotes cells actively transcribing il-4 and membrane hucd2 indicating cells actively secreting il-4 protein we found that the number of il-4-expressing and -producing cd4 t cells peaked at 2 wk postinfection and subsided thereafter fig.

4c-e. in contrast class switching to ige was significantly compromised as exhibited by fewer ige pcs in 4getkn2.tdbcl6 mice compared to littermate controls fig.

consistent with the defective ige pc response serum ige titers were also significantly diminished in the absence of tfh cells fig.

whereas the frequency of igg12ige cells was significantly increased there was no difference in the total number of class-switched ige pcs nor serum ige at this point during infection fig.

