the 'liking' of the high-fat concentration of corn oil were elevated in both tf-2w and tf-8w rats compared with their controls p o0.05 a. the body weight vatbw and fasting plasma insulin increased the gir60-120 decreased in tf-8w rats while there is no obvious difference in tf-2w animals p o0.05 b-e. the relative level of t. forsythia increased in tf-2w and tf-8w p o0.05 f but no significant difference were detected in all groups before the starting of infection shaw-0wtf-0w p40.05 f. ap o0.05 vs controls all data are mean - s.d..coating and the odds of yellow tongue coating on high fatty food liking fat accumulation and insulin sensitivity increased in individuals and t. forsythia induced elevation of fatty food liking adiposity and ir in animals which also support the hypothesis that the alteration of t. forsythia and fatty food liking could be vital in fat accumulation and ir in cufa.interestingly our findings illustrated that the infection of t. forsythia and increases in fatty food liking preceded the development of fat accumulation and ir in both cufa and t. forsythia-infected rats which suggests adiposity and ir in these animals might be mediated byt.

similarly our observations showed that the t. forsythia colonization fatty food liking adiposity and ir were augmented in cufa humans and rodents in the present study the t. forsythia found on the tongue closely correlated with yellow tonguefigure 3. alteration of fatty food liking lipid accumulation and insulin resistance in t. forsythia-infected rats.

besides tongue diagnosis has been an integral part of traditional chinese medicine practice and obesity has been investigated since the latter's inception around the third century bcein which yellow tongue coating is considered as important characteristics of obesity.recently t. forsythia is reported to be very important in yellow tongue-coating microbiota.there- fore the changes of t. forsythia on the dorsum of tongue probably associate with yellow tongue coating in cufa subjects and both of them is likely to be pivotal in fat accumulation and ir in cufa.

it is reported that t. forsythia outer membrane vesicles which gram negative microorganisms deploy theirperiplasm to secrete for trafficking bacterial biochemicals to target cells in their environment contained predominately c16 and c18 linear alkyl chains in abundance but less shorter chain fatty acids.the abundant long-chain fatty acids and rarity of shorter chain fatty acids in t. forsythia outer membrane vesicles might be an important explanation for increases in fatty food liking in t. forsythia-infected mammals.yet it should be noted that for practical reasons involving theunavailability of facilities or agents we were not able to employ more tests to evaluate fatty acid taste sensitivity although it is reported that there is a positive correlation between performance in the fat ranking task and oral fatty acid sensitivity.moreover the motivation to obtain a food reward also termed 'wanting' was not assessed as goal-directed behavior in spite of the fact that the relevance was illustrated between the behavior of 'liking' and 'wanting'.

the food intake of cufa rats was restricted to 60 of that eaten by their ad libitum-fed companions of the same weight while caloric restriction and the cufa animals were pair-fed with their weight-matched ad libitum-fed controls after refeeding as described previously.experiment b changes in fat taste reactivity fat accumulation and insulin sensitivity in t. forsythia-infected ratsanimals were randomly divided into four groups 12 rats in each group for two sampling points t. forsythia infected for 2 weeks tf-2w t. forsythia infected for 8 weeks tf-8w and their sham-infected controls sham-2w and sham-8w respectively.

notably the t. forsythia found on the tongue closely correlated with yellow tongue coating and the odds of yellow tongue coating on high fatty food liking fat accumulation and insulin sensitivity increased in humans.

moreover the t. forsythia found on the tongue correlating closely with yellow tongue coating and the increases in odds of yellow tongue coating on high fatty food liking fat accumulation and insulin sensitivity were observed in human individuals in our investigation.

waist circumference waist-hip ratio bmi fasting blood glucose total triglycerides systolic blood pressure diastolic blood pressure homa-ir tended to be higher in cufa individuals  p  0.002 0.000 0.012 0.000 0.000 0.1510.001 0.040 in male and 0.064 0.003 0.008 0.002 0.211 0.1150.000 0.000 in female respectively than those in non-cufa subjects.tongue-coating color t. forsythia and fatty food liking in catch-up fat humansthe percentages of subjects with yellow tongue coating were higher in cufa group in male and female analyzed by kh2 test p o0.05 1a.

reported that impairment of insulin sensitivity and accelerated body fat recovery in cufa using a rat model of semistarvation-refeeding which is consistent with our findings.we further found that increases in proportions of t. forsythia colonization and yellow coating on the dorsum of tongue and upregulation of fatty food liking in cufa humans which are characterized by fat accumula- tion and ir.

the percentages of subjects with yellow tongue-coating were higher in cufa group p o0.05 a. obvious increases in the percentages of t. forsythia were observed in cufa individuals p o0.05 b. the scores obtained in the fat ranking task were significantly lower in cufa compared with non-cufa subjects p o0.05 c. the hedonic ratings of low-fat options of biscuits sausage and salad dressing were much less p o0.05 while the ratings of high-fat options of these sampled food were remarkably higher p o0.05 in cufa compared with non-cufa subjects d. ap o0.05 vs controls all data are mean or  with 95 confidence interval.experiments to confirm that there is no difference in all groups.

correspondence dr x hu or professor l-l chen department of endocrinology union hospital tongji medical college huazhong university of science and technology 1277 jiefang avenue wuhan hubei province 430022 china.e-mail or 8these authors contributed equally to this work.received 27 april 2017 revised 26 july 2017 accepted 30 july 2017 accepted article preview online 14 august 2017 advance online publication 12 september 2017study to explore whether t. forsythia and coating color on the dorsal tongue and fatty food liking are associated with fat accumulation and ir in cufa and the potential relationship among them.materials and methodssubjects and study designa total of 377 eligible residents were selected and participate in the study from residents of han population over the age of 40 years in hubei province which is located in central china.

like- wise elevation of t. forsythia infection on the dorsal tongue and fatty food liking was observed in cufa rodents which are characterized by fat accumulation and ir.

accordingly further studies are being designed and more time and attention will be required to add to scientific investigation in this field.notwithstanding these limitations we found that fat accumula- tion and ir are associated with increases in t. forsythia colonization and yellow coating on the dorsum of tongue and fatty food liking in cufa.

furthermore our data indicated that t. forsythia infection promoted fatty food liking and induced subsequent fat accumulation and ir in animals.we observed that fat accumulation and ir in cufa humans which is similar to that investigated in cufa animals in the present study and our previous work.marcelino et al.

the animal study was divided into two experiments.experiment a alterations in t. forsythia on the tongue dorsum fat taste reactivity fat accumulation and insulin sensitivity in cufa ratscufa animals were developed by refeeding after caloric restriction as illustrated before.rats were randomly allocated into four groups 12 rats in each group for two sampling points cufa refed with normal chow for 1 week r4n1 cufa refed with normal chow for 4 week r4n4 and their normal chow controls for 5 or 8 weeks n5 n8 individually.

