2013. however selective targeting of s. mutans biofilms for disease prevention as well as the interactions between s. mutans biofilms and dietary sucrose on the oral microbiome has not been reported.extracts or derivatives of various natural products such as propolis and cranberries have been characterized and shown to prevent dental caries although none have exhibited notable selectivity toward s. mutans koo et al.

an early study designed an antimicrobial peptide c16g2 that selectively targeted s. mutans however c16g2 kills s. mutans and is not specific for biofilms a key virulence factor of s. mutans eckert et al.

s. mutans dgtfb and dgtfc mutant strains were kindly provided by dr. robert burne and s. mutans dagiii was kindly provided by dr. jeannine brady university of florida gainesville fl.

mutans biofilm in vitroto determine whether selective targeting of s. mutans biofilms could effectively prevent dental caries we first needed to iden- tify a compound capable of selectively targeting s. mutans bio- films.

2010. a previous study from our groups used a library of 2-ai derivatives and biofilm formation assays with s. mutans and successfully identified a small molecule inhibitor of s. mutans biofilm formation liu et al.

to this end biofilms formed by oral commensals s. sanguinis or s. gordonii were treated with 5 um 3f1 or dmso.

gordonii biofilms in vitro may contribute to a positive out- come in vivo since s. gordonii antagonizes s. mutans through production of hydrogen peroxide kreth et al.

reductionin s. mutans cfus after treatment with 3f1 in vivo table 2 corroborates with results from other rat caries studies where a slight reduction in s. mutans cfus resulted in a significant decrease in dental caries branco-de-almeida et al.

the dysbiosis of the oral microbiome is mainly attributed to daily sugar intake and not the abundance of s. mutans as the reduc- tion of s. mutans colonization by 3f1 did not significantly alter overall the microbiome at the phylum and genus levels.

blackledge3 s. michalek2 l. su1 t. ptacek24 p. eipers5c.

persistence of s. mutans biofilms in the oral cavity can lead to tooth decay.

we screened a library of 2-aminoimidazole antibiofilm compounds with a biofilm dispersion assay and identified a small molecule that specifically targets s. mutans biofilms.

at 5 um the small molecule annotated 3f1 dispersed 50 of the established s. mutans biofilm but did not disperse biofilms formed by the commensal species streptococcus sanguinis or streptococcus gordonii.

3f1 dispersed s. mutans biofilms independently of biofilm-related factors such as antigen iii and glucosyltransferases.

3f1 treatment effectively prevented dental caries by controlling s. mutans in a rat caries model without perturbing the oral microbiota.

