fos1gos administration signifi- cantly increased time in the center of the open field test and a tendency to make more entries into the center of the open field test but there was no effect of prebiotic administration on latency to the center zone .there was no effect of prebiotic administration on percent- age time spent in open arms in the elevate plus maze test  but a significant effect of prebiotic administration on percentage entries into open arms in the elevated plus maze was observed .there was a tendency of prebiotic administration to reduce the number of buried marbles in the defensive marble burying test .figure 4. short-chain fatty acid scfa concentrations in cecum.

f g animals from the stress and stressfos1gos groups reduced entries to the open arms f and time spent there g however the group administered prebiotics spent more time in open arms compared with the stress-only group g. h the number of entries into the center was reduced in both stress groups compared with the control group p  .05 p  .01 p  .001 comparing with the control group p  .05 comparing with the stress group.

similarly stress also led to higher levels of corticosterone 45 minutes after the beginning of the forced swim test this was attenuated by prebiotic treatment having lower levels than only stressed animals .study 2 spleen cytokine production after stimulation with concanavalin a and lipopolysaccharidethe only stress group presented a higher concentration of interleukin 6 after stimulation with concanavalin a and animals with prebiotics had similar levels to control animals .

fos1gos administration significantly reduced mrna levels of glucocorti- coid receptor in hypothalamus but not crfr1 or mineralocorticoid receptor .study 1 tryptophan and tryptophan metabolitesgos and fos1gos administration reduced l-tryptophan levels in the plasma .study 1 brain monoaminesfos and fos1gos administration increased serotonin levels in the prefrontal cortex.

all other authors report no biomedical financial interests or potential conflicts of interest.article informationfrom the apc microbiome institute ab sa rdm vlp gc cs tgd jfc department of psychiatry and neurobehavioral science gc tgd and department of anatomy and neuroscience vlp jfc university college cork cork and teagasc food research centre sa km cs biosciences department moorepark fermoy ireland.sa rdm and vlp contributed equally to this work.address correspondence to john f. cryan ph.d. department of anatomy and neuroscience apc microbiome institute university college cork cork ireland e-mail received jul 26 2016 revised dec 28 2016 accepted dec 29 2016.supplementary material cited in this article is available online at .references fififififigure 13. a b the stress group presented increased immobility time in the tail suspension test a and in the forced swim test b whereas the stress group with prebiotics presented lower increment in immobility time compared with the stress-only group.stress-induced defecation in the forced swim test was increased only in the stress group.

e f chronic stress increased basal corticosterone levels e and corticos- terone levels 45 minutes after a stress- ful event forced swim test f. the stress group with prebiotics presented lower corticosterone levels at 45 min- utes after a stressful event f. g spleen cytokine production without stimulation vehicle or following stimu- lation with lipopolysaccharide lps and concanavalin a cona is shown.

the stress group presented increased levels of released interleukin 6 il-6g and tumor necrosis factor alpha tnf-a h after cona stimulation.p  .05 p  .01 p  .001 comparing with the control group p .05 p  .01 comparing with the stress group one-way analysis of var- iance followed by least significant difference post hoc test n 5 9-10 data represent mean 6 sem.

reduced concentrations of isobutyrate after prebiotic administration had signifi- cantly positive association with reduced immobility time in the forced swim test latency to enter into the center of the open field test corticos- terone levels 45 minutes after stress and messenger rna levels of miner- alocorticoid receptor in the hypotha- lamus.

locomotor activity measured during10 minutes of the habituation phase for the novel object recognition test was not affected by prebiotic administration .study 1 endocrine responserepeated measures two-way anova revealed that prebiotic administration significantly decreased corticosterone levels .

taking these behavioral and neuroendocrine findings together it is intriguing that administration of the combination of fos1gos had a different impact on animals than each prebiotic alone with the combination treatment group achieving overall more positive results indicating an additive response of prebiotic administration.

statistical significance was set at p  .05.resultsdetailed results and statistical analysis can be found in thefigure legends and detailed in the .study 1 general effects of prebiotic administrationthe prebiotic administration did not have any effect on body weight gain   or on nonfasted glucose levels in plasma  and defecation patterns during behavioral tests data not shown but there was a significant effect on cecum weight that increased after 10 weeks of all prebiotic administrations .study 1 16s compositional analysis of cecal microbiotamiseq sequencing generated a total of 6874289 reads after quality control denoising and chimera removal samples were rarefied to an even sampling depth of 63000 reads.

mice groups color coding red control group blue mice with fructo-oligosaccharides fos administration orange mice with galacto-oligosaccharides gos administration green mice with fos1gos administration.

e f fos administration increased whereas fos1gos administration decreased mrna levels of n-methyl-d-aspartate nmda receptor 2a subunit e but there were no changes of mrna for nmda receptor 2b subunit f. p  .05 p  .01 p  .001 one-way analysis of variance followed by least significant difference post hoc test n 5 8-10 data represent mean 6 sem.a stimulation and in animals with prebiotics this had normal- ized to control levels .

number of entries to the center of open field was also reduced by stress but was not reversed by prebiotic cotreatment .stress significantly increased immobility time in the tail suspension test where fos1gos administration attenuated the effects of stress .

similarly stress induced an increased concen- tration in tumor necrosis factor alpha after concanavalinprincipal coordinates using weighted unifrac analysis showed slight clustering of samples related to the control and stressfos1gos groups separated from the stress group .the different cecal microbiota composition was reflected in significant differences at multiple taxonomical levels  and  as detailed in the .

