HSP70 protein transcripts were significantly 2-fold increased at all stations but distributed among different taxonomic groups at the different stations at S1 to Enterobacteriaceae 0.2 ppm relative abundance at S2 to Candidatus Pelagibacter 1 ppm relative abun- dance and to Oceanobacter 0.4 ppm relative abundance at S3 to Rhodobacterales 4.9 ppm to Gammaproteobacteria 0.5 ppm and to Oceanibaculum 0.2 ppm at S4 to Alphaproteobacteria 0.7 ppm rela- tive abundance - .Predicted amidohydrolase - COG0388 transcripts were found inmany different taxonomic groups but never exceeded 1 ppm relative abundance .

This analysis showed that marine groups such as Euryarchaea Oceanospirillales Deferribacterales Verrucomicrobia in- cluding the marine MB11C04 Rhodospirillales and Flavobacteriales pro- vide an increasing contribution towards the marine station S1 while the opposite was true for Campylobacterales and several other minor fresh- water-associated groups suggesting their marine and river origin re- spectively .

S.Kanehisa M. Goto S. Sato Y. Kawashima M. Furumichi M. Tanabe M. 2014.

.Pepi M. Borra M. Tamburrino S. Saggiomo M. Viola A. Biffali E. Balestra C. Sprovieri M. Casotti R. 2016.

At S3 Glaciecola Gammaproteobacteria and Balneatrix related transcripts were found with 0.3 ppm 0.3 ppm and 0.2 ppm relative abundance while Roseobacter and Glaciecola-related transcripts were found with0.2 ppm relative abundance each at S4 .The low abundance of transcripts related to stress-related genes might be due to the low residence time of the bacterial communities in the river plume and consequently only short exposure time to the stressor.

This supports the hypothesis of the higher importance of ammonia oxidizing Archaea AOA such as Nitrosopumilus over ammonia oxidizing Bacteria AOB  .Relative transcript abundance of the aprB gene was highest at S2 6.1 ppm and relatively lower at S1 S3 and S4 with 3.7 ppm4.1 ppm and 4.5 ppm respectively B.

Transcripts of the dsrAB genes mainly attributed to Thioalkalivibrio and other Gammaproteobacteria were highest at S2 2.6 ppm and decreased to- wards S3  0.5 ppm and S4 0.6 ppm.

Burkholderia-related transcripts were found at S1 with 0.2 ppm relative abundance while Glaciecola Aquificiales Nisaea and related transcripts were found at S2 with 0.6 ppm0.3 ppm and 0.2 ppm relative abundance respectively.

This in turn may have detri- mental effects on the whole ecosystem functioning and also on human health .The present study represents a snapshot of the marine bacterialcommunity at a marine site where salinity indicates a little residual di- lution of freshwater from the Sarno River.

Bacteroidetes and Archaea were also found in rel- atively high abundance similar to other marine communities of the Mediterranean Sea or the Atlantic Ocean  .The gammaproteobacterial Oceanospirillales showed the highest se- quence abundance at all stations with 16.0 - 0.3 followed by the alphaproteobacterial Rhodospirillales ranging between 10.8 S4 and 14.6 S3 and dominated by the AEGEAN-169 marine group.

