of these 61 11 otus were at higher relative abundance at day 14 and the rest 8 otus were at higher relative abundance at day 0. this was followed by pocket conditions which had 15 otus significantly different between day 0 and day 14 with 73 11 otus at higher relative abundance at day 0. room conditions had the least amount of significantly different otus nine otus between time points of which 55 five otus were at higher relative abundance at day 14.in contrast to its non-mentholated counterpart ccm had the greatest number of otus 20 otus that were significantly different between day 0 and day 14 at room conditions  with 70 14 otus at higher abundance at day 0 compared to day 14. refrigerator conditions had the second largest amount of otus eight otus that were significantly different between day 0 and day 14 for ccm all of which had higher relative abundance at day 0. at pocket conditions there were only three otus that were significantly different between time points.

however unlike ccm 67 of the otus 23 otus were at higher relative abundance at day 14. the second condition that produced the most otus with significantly different relative abundances 24 otus between time points was refrigerator conditions 54 of otus 13 otus at higher relative abundance at day 0. pocket conditions had the smallest amount of otus at significantly different relative abundances 14 otus.

however only one of these otus was at higher relative abundance at day 0 bacillus 189. the remaining 98 42 otus were at higher relative abundance at day 14. room conditions had 38 otus at significantly different relative abundance between time points all at higher relative abundance at day 14. finally refrigerator conditions had the least number of otus 11 otus that were significantly different in relative abundance between day 0 and day 14 all of which were higher at day 14.there were only five otus at statistically significantly different p  0.001 relative abundances between day 0 and day 14 among the different conditions for nmb .

however the only significant change in shannon indices was between day 0 and day 9 in nmb at pocket conditions in which diversity increased p  0.05 supplementary figure s3.comparative analysis of otus by condition between day 0 and day 14within the experimental conditions tested non-mentholated cc had the greatest amount of otus 19 otus that were significantly different in relative abundance between day 0and day 14 at refrigerator conditions .

bolded text refers to otus that occur in both ab.custom-mentholated camel kings ckm at pocket conditions had the most otus 43 otus that were significantly different in relative abundance between day 0 and day 14 .

in both conditions one of the otus was at higher relative abundance at day 0 and one higher at day 14. room conditions had only one otu significantly higher at day 14.operational taxonomic units that are significantly different in relative abundance between day 0 and day 14 in both cc and ccm and in both ck and ckm are described in detail in the supplementary material in addition to a comparison of the product lots supplementary figures s4-s6.analysis of tsna contentn-nitrosonornicotine levels were significantly higher p  0.05 at pocket conditions from day 0 to day 14 for nmb and ccm .

two were at higher abundance at day 0 and one was at a higher abundance at day 14.similar to ccm non-mentholated camel kings ck had the largest amount of otus at significantly different relative abundances 34 otus between day 0 and day 14 at room conditions .

of these 57 eight otus were at higher relative abundance at day 14.figure 6  overview of relative abundances of bacterial otus that were statistically significantly different p-value  0.001 between day 0 and day 14 for refrigerator circle room temperature square and pocket triangle conditions for a non-mentholated camel kings ck and b mentholated camel kings ckm.

for nmb bacillus decreased in relative abundance between day 0 and day 5 and then stayed relatively unchanged for the remainder of the study .the relative abundance of pantoea appeared to be more affected by condition whereas changes in the relative abundance occurred in cc at pocket and room conditions  in ccm at room conditions  and in nmb at pocket and refrigerator conditions .

a total of 1985 different bacterial otus 97 identity were identified at an average of 185 otus per sample -46 sd.taxonomic analysis of all cigarette brandsafter samples were pooled by brand cc ccm ck ckm and nmb time point day 0 day 5 day 0 and day 14 and condition pocket room and refrigerator pseudomonas had the highest relative abundance in all instances ranging from 7.05 to 11.24. this was followed by either pantoea 3.58-8.44 or bacillus 4.58-9.38 .

a comparative analysis of these bacterial otus revealed that 11 otus were shared among all samples regardless of brand time and experimental condition at relative abundances between 1.26 pseudomonas putida otu 3 and 0.83 rhizobium sp.

therefore this study aimed to utilize high throughput 16s rrna gene sequencing to investigate the bacterial community composition of five cigarette brands over 14 days at average room refrigerator and pocket conditions to identify potential trends in overall bacterial diversity and in specific operational taxonomic units otus.

the core tobacco bacterial microbiome was defined as otus present at a minimum fraction of 100 in all tested products with qiime's computecoremicrobiome.py script   and visualized with cytoscape  .beta diversity for all brands at all times and conditions was calculated using the bray-curtis dissimilarity and compared using analysis of similarities anosim on normalized data 999 permutations through the r packages biomformat   vegan   ggplot2  phyloseq .

this is in contrast to ccm in which there was a significant increase in pantoea between those same times at the same condition .the core microbiome defined for each brand comprised 26 bacterial otus for cc 24 for ck 22 for nmb 20 for ckmfigure 1  bacterial community composition of cigarette products over time and differing storage conditions.

pocket and refrigerator conditions each had two otus that were at significantly different relative abundance between time points.

