email figure 1. proportion of samples from which different bacterial taxa were isolated from the ocular surface of subjects sampled at three time points baseline 1-month 3-months a in all samples irrespective of time point n 129 b in samples n 43 per time point n 3.studies left a clear identification of a core ocular microbiome incomplete as none have examined the stability of the microbiome over time in a large cohort of healthy subjects.

how these microbial populations reach the ocular surface their function and viability whilst on the surface and whether they are found on the ocular surface over even longer periods of time should be the subject of future studies.methodsinclusionexclusion criteria and visit schedule.

openreceived 31 march 2017accepted 10 august 2017 published xx xx xxxxtemporal stability and composition of the ocular surface microbiomejerome ozkan123 shaun nielsen23 cristina diez-vives23 minas coroneo4 torsten thomas23  mark willcox1to determine if there is a core ocular surface microbiome and whether there are microbial community changes over time the conjunctiva of 45 healthy subjects were sampled at three time points over three months and processed using culture-dependent and -independent methods.

from rea- gents may be falsely assigned to a core of the ocular surface microbiota.understanding whether the ocular surface is characterised by a 'core' microbiota may shed light on whether idiopathic ocular surface disorders including dry eye syndrome thygeson's disease episcleritis chronic follicular conjunctivitis all of which have an inflammatory element could be related to the dysregulation of the ocular microbiome such as may occur during the short and long-term use of antibiotics.

applying this approach reduced the total number of otus identified on the ocular surface from 11894 to 183. while the majority of 16s rrna gene based studies have reported higher otu numbers onfigure 5. presence of bacterial taxa in subject samples per time at the level of a otu data for first 50 shown only b genus first 35 only c phylum.the ocular surface with one study finding an average of 460 otus on the healthy conjunctiva and 7392 otus in total from 107 samples these studies did not apply a rigorous contaminant filtering step.

we therefore postulate that the number of otus on the ocular surface is in the vicinity of 183 rather than the higher numbers previously claimed and at most 40 on any given individual.figure 6. presence of bacterial taxa in subjects  at all three time points at the level of a otu b genus c phylum.using culture methods the most abundant and prevalent microbial species on the ocular surface were coagulase-negative staphylococcus phylum firmicutes proprionibacterium spp.

a statistically significant increase in microbial richness and shannon diversity index was observed over time which was possibly related to the variability inherent in randomly sam- pling only a limited area of a low biomass surface and the sparse transient and regional ocular surface microbi- ome that is exposed to the external environment and constantly interacting with the lid marginskin microbiota.

.an average of 16 otus were observed on the ocular surface at each sampling time point and there was an average of 33 otus per subject across the three time points.

there was afigure 2. presence of bacterial taxa in subjects n 43 at all three time points.figure 3. non-metric multidimensional scaling nmds ordination of the ocular surface microbiome communities by time compared using bray-curtis dissimilarity of otus.difference in the shannon diversity between sexes with males having significantly higher shannon diversity than females p 0.040 supplementary fig.

considering the antimicrobial environment of the ocular surfaceand the difficulties involved in generating sufficient amplicon product from ocular surface swabs of healthy individuals compared to individuals with ocular infections  it is unlikely the ocular surface supports such a diverse microbiota as at other body sites.

the low biomass of microbial material from the ocular surface samples posed a risk that material from the environment and reagents could contaminate the analysis of the microbial composition of the ocular surface.

however such conclusion of a core microbiota is confounded by the fact that the majority of studies have sampled the ocular surface only at a single time point and those studies which have sampled longitudinally investigated only a small subset of healthy subjects ranging from one fiveto 11subjects.

we modelled the alpha diversity on the ocular surface against age and sex and using time points and individuals as random factors.

the average shannon diversity index of the ocular surface at each sampling time point was 1.6. there was sig- nificant variation between sampling times for shannon diversity p  0.049 supplementary fig.

overall ocular surface microbial alpha diversity measures of richness and shannon diversity were low and relatively stable over time.

