therefore in addition to the quantification of the 16s genes of scfa-producing bacteria we also target the genes encoding butyryl-coaacetate coa-transferase and methyl- malonyl-coa decarboxylase a-subunit to estimate the butyrate- producing and propionate-producing ability which further pro- vides a functional insight into the gut microbiota.in this study which is a follow-up work of our previously re- ports on colonic microbiota  we monitored the temporal change of the gut microbiota in a rat model fed with hpd for 6 weeks and identified both the taxonomic and functional change of fecal microbiota aiming to identify the temporal microbiota changes during hpd feeding.

to dissect temporal changes of microbiota dynamic analyses of fecal microbiota were conducted using a rat model.

collectively by fecal microbiota analysis in a rat model this study uncovered the tem- poral microbiota changes providing a practical approach and important biomarkers for investigating the status of microbial communities.conflict of interestthe authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.acknowledgementthis work was supported by grants from the national key basic research program of china 2013cb127303 national natural sci- ence foundation of china 31430082 and jiangsu province natural science foundation bk20130058.appendix a. supplementary datasupplementary data related to this article can be found at .referencese.e.e.e.

eanaerobes in the microbiometemporal microbiota changes of high-protein diet intake in a rat modelchunlong mu yuxiang yang zhen luo weiyun zhujiangsu key laboratory of gastrointestinal nutrition and animal health laboratory of gastrointestinal microbiology college of animal science and technology nanjing agricultural university nanjing chinaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 15 march 2017 received in revised form 2 june 2017accepted 2 june 2017available online 17 june 2017handling editor andrew bruce onderdonkkeywords temporal changes gut microbiotabutyrate-producing bacteria propionate-producing bacteriaa b s t r a c t alterations of specific microbes serve as important indicators that link gut health with specific diet intake.

although a six-week high-protein diet 45 protein upregulates the pro-inflammatory response and oxidative stress in colon of rats the dynamic alteration of gut microbiota remains unclear.

adult rats were fed a normal-protein diet or an hpd for 6 weeks and feces collected at different weeks were used for microbiota and metabolite analysis.

the structural alteration of fecal microbiota was observed after 4 weeks especially for the decreased appearance of bands related to akkermansia species.

hpd also decreased the copies of genes encoding butyryl-coaacetate coa-transferaseand prevotella-associated methylmalonyl-coa decarboxylase a-subunit p  0.05. the concentrations ofacetate propionate and butyrate were decreased by hpd p  0.05. additionally hpd tended to decrease p 14 0.057 the concentration of igg in the colonic lumen which was positively correlated with fecal butyrate at week 6 p  0.05. collectively this study found the temporal alteration of fecal microbiota related to the decreased numbers and activity of propionate- and butyrate-producing bacteria in feces after the hpd.

these findings may provide important reference for linking changes of specific fecal microbes with gut health under high-protein diet.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductiongut microbiota and their metabolic products can affect gut ho- meostasis.

diet is known as a major modulator of the composition and function of gut microbiota .

importantly alterations in gut microbiota may play pivotal role in mediating the detrimental effect.

even though the temporal microbiota changes remain unclear.

for example temporal analysis of fecal microbiota identified that the ratio of firmicutes to bacteroidetes is related to human obesity although there are cases where the ratio was switched or not detected in obesity .

anaerobe 47 2017 218e225219identify the temporal microbiota changes from fecal materials during hpd intake.interestingly hpd affected the production of short-chain fatty acids scfas both in human and rodent models .

although changes of microbial composition have been revealed in colon  alterations of gut microbiota at the functional level are still unclear.

