nanotoxicology 20137251-8.gobert ap vareille m glasser al et al.

collectively these observations suggest that t. thermophila aids in dissemination of bacteriophages by accumulating susceptible bacteria and phages in their phagocytic vesicles.keywords bacteriophage bacteria tetrahymena phagocytosis horizontal gene transfer anti-predator defenseintroductionthe microbial communities in natural habitats such as soil pond water and animal rumen are composed of a diverse mixture of bacteria and unicellular eukaryotic bacterivores russell and rychlik  tyson et al.

for example accumulation of e.coli strains in the phagosomes of tetrahymena pyriformis increases the frequency of transfer of conjugative plasmids schlimme hanselmann and jenni  licht et al.

mccuddin et al.

matsuo et al.

for example the ciliate tetrahymena can indiscrimi- nately ingest various particles including india ink latex beads carbon nanotubes bacteriophages and bacteria weidenbach and thompson  batz and wunderlich  nilsson  maicher and tiedtke  pinheiro et al.

chan et al.

instead they remain metabolically active and survive to be expelled to the outside environment licht et al.

strahl gillaspy and falkinham  abd et al.

stein- berg and grinstein  steinberg and levin  gourabathini et al.

siegmund et al.

thermophila and acanthamoeba castellanii thus conferring a sur- vival advantage to bacteria that contain phages encoding exo- toxins lainhart stolfa and koudelka  arnold and koudelka.stx is encoded on lambdoid prophages o'brien et al.

alternatively in lysogenic growth the phage inserts its genome into the host's chromosome and replicates with it until a signal that induces lytic growth is perceived by the lysogenized phages.transcription of the stx2 genes resident in bacteriophages is under the control of a promoter that is active only during lytic growth whereas transcription of phage-borne stx1 genes is un- der control of both phage lytic promoters and the bacterially encoded fur repressor wagner et al.

its release from the bacteria depends on phage genes that cause bacterial cell lysis wagner et al.

thus the synthe- sis and release of phage-encoded stx in response to predation embodies a form of self-destructive cooperative behavior ack- ermann et al.

