similar to samples from ncd volunteers our bioassay results showed that glutenase activity was present in fecal samples from all cd patients tested a. moreover the fecal activity 7000e108000 fgag feces was 171e466 higher than observed in ncd samples 1500e63000 fgag feces a.electrophoresis and zymography using gliadin as a substrate results also revealed gliadinase activity in all cd fecal samples tested c. as observed with the ncd volunteer samples b high fecal protein diversity and variability was present in the cd fecal samples b and 3 principal zones with gliadinase activity were detected by zymography 97 45e35 and 30e25 kda c. moreover densitometric evaluation of proteolytic cleavage products in both the ncd and cd zymographs cfigure 5 fecal hydrolytic activity from human fecal purified proteins against gliadin derived peptides.

fecal samples were homogenized and processed immediately.purification of different fecal glutenase activitiesall procedures were performed at 4 oc unless otherwise indicated.

glutenase activity was confirmed in all samples assayed between 1500 and 63000 fgag of faeces by i running a bioassay a ii sds-page b and iii zymography using gliadin the substrate and c. despite the high fecal protein diversity and variability observed by sds-page b densito- metric analysis of zymograms revealed the presence of 3 principal zones with gliadinase activity at 97 45e35 and 30e25 kda c. by hplc we also observed that the fecal samples from ncd individuals showed hydrolytic activity against the 33- 19- and 13-mer gliadin-derived peptides .

fecal samples were homogenized and precipitated proteins were purified by chromatography.

this is an open access article under the cc by-nc-nd license .keywords gluten gliadin celiac disease glutenase fecal activity gliadinase activityintroductionceliac disease cd is a chronic small intestinal immune-mediated enteropathy triggered by the exposure to gluten proteins in geneti- cally predisposed individuals e. the pathogenesis of cd involves genetic and environmental factors.

as such intestinal dysbiosis has been associated with patients with cd  and it has been purposed that gliadin-metabolizing bacteria may represent one of the missing envi- ronmental links in the development of cd .previous findings have revealed that human feces show glutenase activity in both healthy individuals and cd patients and that significant differences in fecal glutenase activity may occur between these two groups .

rodriguez-aparicio.abbreviations cd celiac disease hla-dq human leukocyte antigen lplc low-performance liquid chromatography ncd non-celiac-disease cel3b gastrointestinal elastase 3b cel2a gastrointestinal elastase 2a cbpa1 human carboxypeptidase a1 atis a-amylasetrypsin inhibitorsreceived april 7 2017  revision received may 9 2017  accepted may 15 2017  available online 22 may 2017 potentially a good sample source for evaluating and identifying the proteases involved in gluten metabolism.accordingly in this work we identified and characterized the proteins responsible for fecal glutenase activity and we compared the pro- teolytic profiles involved in degrading gluten peptides between healthy and individuals with cd.materials and methodsfecal samplingsixteen subjects were included in this study 8 were healthy with no known food intolerances mean age 41 range 25e67 and 8 were cd patients on a gluten-free diet mean age 42 range 27e57.

step 1 sample preparation e fecal samples were homogenized by mechanical stirring 90 min in 10 mm trisehcl ph 7.5 15 wv and centrifuged 3100g 30 min.

the non-retained proteins from a cation-exchange column were applied to an anion exchange column biorad macro-prep high s 1000 a 50 mm equilibrated with 10 mm trisehcl ph 7.5 or 10 mm mops ph 6.5. the column was washed with either buffer and proteins were eluted using a linear kcl gradient 0e0.3 m. one-milliliter fractions were collected.evaluation of fecal glutenase activity in bioassaysfecal glutenase activities were measured as described .

briefly fecal samples were spread on agar plates mcg-1 containing gluten 1.5 20 gl glucose 0.05 gl cacl2 0.07 gl znso4 0.05 gl l-cysteine 0.1 tween 80 60 mm phosphate buffer ph 6.5 and1.5 gl agar and incubated at 37 oc for 24 h. the plates were evaluated by measuring the diameter of the halo formed.

fecal glutenase activity fga was expressed as trypsin-activity equivalents g feces .sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis sds-pagesds-page 12 was run as described by laemmli  with modi- fications described by helmerhorst and wei .

each reaction was filtered using a 0.22- mm cellulose acetate spin-x centrifuge tube filter thermofisher and 10-ml aliquots were subjected to reverse-phase hplc using a c-18figure 1 fecal glutenase activity fga of non-celiac disease ncd volunteers.

representative sds-page b and gliadin zymogram c results from whole-protein fecal samples from non-cd volunteers 1e8.

data are displayed as the mean - se.figure 2 fecal hydrolytic activity against gliadin derived peptides of samples from non-celiac disease ncd volunteers.

the bottom of the figure shows the chro- matographic migration of the peptides.resultsspecific degradation of gluten in human fecesprevious data have demonstrated fecal hydrolytic activity against gluten and the gliadin-derived 33-mer peptide in healthy volunteers cd patients and first-degree relatives .

