in humans a recent pilot study showed that the average levels of mannitol in urine were increased in 22 relapsing-remitting ms patients when compared to 18 healthy individuals 47. authors hypothesized that the observation was the result of an increased intestinal permeability associated with ms. however whether intestinal barrier disruption precedes or not disease is a question that remains to be answered.the studies performed using human stool samples obtained from relapsing ms patients suggest a dysbiotic gut table 1. two of the studies that compared the gut microbiota of ms patients associated the changes in the relative abundances of intestinal microbes with phenotypic modifications in the immune homeostasis and balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory or regulatory cell populations in blood 15 and genotypic changes 18. these studies advance our understanding on the interaction between the gut microbiota and the immune system.

the effects of eae induction on the intestinal barrier disruption as well as on the intestinal microbiota raise the question whether on the animal models of ms dysbiosis is cause or effect.in summary the experimental observations obtained from ms patients suggest that intestinal dysbiosis occurs during the course of the disease figure 1c-e. the association made by jangi and collaborators between patients with elevated relative abundances of the archaeal methanogen methanobrevibacter and increased expression of genes related to immunopathologic pathways in ms is intriguing and constitutes a step forward on the understanding of the gutpage 6 of 8disease axis.

dysbiosis in msmight have the capacity to alter the composition of the microbiota and reverse the apparent dysbiosis that was observed in those with relapsing ms figure 1b.teriflunomide a more recently fda approved treatment for relapsing ms may also have an impact on the dysbiosis in those with ms. we have recently shown that the oral treatment of non-eae c57bl6 mice with teriflunomide promotes the acquisition of a cd39 phenotype on gut- associated lymphoid tissues galt t cells with enhanced protective ability when transferred into eae mice 43. the teri-dynamic study on the immunomodulatory effects of teriflunomide on relapsing-remitting patients recently reported an increased frequency of circulating inducible tregs in treated patients when compared with controls 44. together the human and murine immune studies suggest that teriflunomide may have immunomodulatory effects that could potentially affect gut dysbiosis.in their study jangi and colleagues demonstrate an association between the changes in the intestinal microbiota and the peripheral immunological responses observed in relapsing remitting ms patients figure 1a.

furthermore treatment with oral antibiotics also reduce significantly the severity of eae 3031. the experimental evidence gathered using animal model studies indicate the effects of the microbiota in the regulation of eae in animals 2426-2832-36. furthermore gut microbes suchpage 4 of 8as b. fragilis and lactobacillus rhamnosus have been shown to interact with neurons in the enteric nervous system ens directly and affect their function 37. the gut microbiota can directly influence hormonal levels thus modulating the effects of the endocrine system in the autonomous nervous system 38. for example the effects of the microbiota on ms maybe associated with direct interactions and functional changes on the immune endocrine and neuronal systems figure 1a as previously reviewed 39-41.in a recent work published by jangi and collaborators the gut microbiota of 60 ms patients was compared with the microbiota of 43 healthy donors 18. both male and female relapsing-remitting ms patients were selected for the study.

these effects can be reversed with the oral treatment with b. fragilis 9. in germ-free mice gut epithelial integrity is also affected and is restored by colonization with a probiotic therapy consisted in lactobacillus rhamnosus lock0900 l. rhamnosus lock0908 and l. casei lock0919 improving the intestinal morphology and barrier integrity 46. experimental findings suggest a change in the intestinal permeability that occurs even before disease onset may imply that the disease itself affects the integrity of the intestinal interaction between microbes and our cells.

experimental evidence suggests that changes in the composition of the heterogeneous intestinal ecosystem may be associated with alterations in the severity in different models of human autoimmune diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease 2 asthma 3 allergies 4 diabetes 5 rheumatoid arthritis 6 or systemic lupus erythematosus sle 7. furthermore results obtained in the multiple sclerosis ms animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis eae suggest an association between the gut and the central nervous system cnspage 2 of 8ochoa-reparaz et al.

the number of studiescomparing the composition of the intestinal microbiota of ms patients with healthy individuals is gradually increasing over the recent years table 1. many of the studies shown in table 1 have been recently reviewed by newland et al.

19. the studies conducted so far suggest the presence of a disrupted or altered microbiota in ms patients when compared to healthy controls 12-18. all studies wereannals of translational medicine vol 5 no 6 march 2017page 3 of 8figure 1 the bidirectional nature of the gutdisease axis in the context of ms. to date the studies performed using samples obtained from ms patients and healthy individuals suggest that relative abundances of specific gut microbes are significantly altered table 1. experimental evidence suggests that changes in the microbiota might affect immune endocrine and neuronal function a. however it is not known whether the intestinal disruption precedes the onset of disease or the changes occur once the immunological dysfunction that results in disease is already ongoing.

reference number.inflammatory demyelination 8. the gut-brain connection is currently being experimentally explored in the context of different human cns disorders such as autism 910 and parkinson's disease pd 11.the alteration of the intestinal microbial community that might lead to either animal or human diseases is termed intestinal or gut dysbiosis.

therapies that target the immune system and modulate the function of key immune cells b could affect their interaction with the gut microbiota c. disease-associated immunological responses could also affect the intestinal ecosystem by alterations in the intestinal barrier permeability for example d. that could also result in concomitant effects on the function of immune cells.

although preliminary expanded studies would determine whether the detection of exhaled methane could potentially be considered a marker for ms-associated intestinal dysbiosis.one important question that remains to be answered is whether disease can affect the intestinal ecosystem and the gut microbiota as hypothesized in figure 1 figure 1cd.

intestinal barrier dysfunction develops at the onset of experimentalpage 8 of 8ochoa-reparaz et al.

gut microbes 20145552-61.lee yk menezes js umesaki y et al.

the gut microbiome affects the progression of disease in a murine model of secondary progressive ms. neurology 201686p5.324ochoa-reparaz j colpitts sl kircher c et al.

the gene expression analysis was performed after screening patients based on the intestinal relative abundances of methanobrevibacter increased in samples obtained from ms patients when compared to healthy individuals.

