after discontinuation of ppi treatment the fecal microbiome correlated to patients' age and nutrition.keywords proton pump inhibitors microbiome infants gerd clostridium difficileintroductiongastroesophageal reflux ger is a common finding in infants caused by temporary relaxations of the immature lower esophageal sphincter les vandenplas et al.

some infants however may develop gastroesophageal reflux disease gerd associated with vomiting feeding problems pain esophagitis failure to thrive andor recurrent respiratory infections rudolph et al.

in adults possible side effects of prolonged ppi therapy include an increased risk of community acquired enteritis and clostridium difficile infections cdi janarthanan et al.

2012 bouwknegt et al.

2014 mcdonald et al.

2015.the influence of ppi therapy on the intestinal microbiome has only been studied in adults under ppi therapy demonstrating dramatic changes of both the gastric and esophageal microbial communities amir et al.

2014. furthermore examinations of fecal samples have shown an increased abundance of enterococcae and streptococcae as well as decreased clostridiales associated with an increased risk of cdi freedberg et al.

recent reports also describe an increased risk of cdi infections in infants under acid suppression treatment brown et al.

2015 freedberg et al.

the two most common theories are 1 ppi directly affect the microbial environment by increasing the gastric ph andor 2 ppi directly target bacterial proton pumps containing p-type atpase enzymes vesper et al.

2009.the gut microbiome in infancy develops from sterility at birth to an adult-like profile dominated by the phyla firmicutes 50-70 total bacterial numbers bacteroidetes 10- 30 proteobacteria up to 10 and actinobacteria up to 10 eckburg et al.

2005 within the first years of life palmer et al.

2007 yatsunenko et al.

2012. in this period a longitudinal investigation of fecal samples has revealed an increase of the total number of colonizing bacteria as well as unstable and heterogenic relative abundances of the different phyla palmer et al.

2007. thus data derived from the stable microbiome in adults are not representative for infants palmer et al.

