the shannon index demonstrated a significant decrease in diversity in milk samples from week 6 to 12 p  0.0482. there were no statistically significant differences in alpha diversity metrics in fecal samples over time.regarding phyla at week 1 human milk was dominated by proteobacteria 41 firmicutes 35 andbacteroidetes 17 accounting for 93 of all reads 2. conversely infant faeces harboured higher relative abundances of firmicutes 56 and actinobacteria 20 and lower proteobacteria 21 and bacteroidetes 3. proteobacteria dominated in milk samples with the exception of week 3 where firmicutes showed the highest mean relative abundance 50.at genus level 12 genera appeared to predominate in human milk as they were detected at a mean rela- tive abundance of 1 in at least 90 of samples collected over time 3. these genera dominated the community representing 81 of the relative abundance in human milk samples at week 1 range 64-91 3 range 64-90 and 6 range 61-90 and 73 of the relative abundance at week 12 range 50-82. this core comprised pseudomonas staphylococcus streptococcus elizabethkingia variovorax bifidobacterium flavobacterium lactobacillus stenotrophomonas brevundimonas chryseobacterium and enterobacter.

veillonella and escherichiashigella for example occurred at a higher mean relative abundance in infant faeces 14 and 12 respectively compared to 1 and 0.04 respectively in human milk at week 1. in contrast staphylococcus was consistently detected at a high fre- quency in all samples with a mean relative abundance of 13 and 19 at week 1 in human milk and infant faeces respectively.a number of niche-specific genera were exclusive to either human milk or infant faeces.

this identified the bifidobacterium isolates as b. breve andfigure 2. phylum level assignments of average relative abundances of the microbiota in human milk and infant faeces over week 1 3 6 and 12.figure 3. the core genera and average relative abundances identified in the microbiota of human milk.core as defined by the presence in the microbiota of 90 or more of the 10 women at 1 of the total reads.figure 4. genus level assignments of average relative abundances of the faecal microbiota in infants.lactobacillus isolates as l. plantarum in both the human milk and the infants fecal samples.

formula-fed infants have been reported to have higher morbidity and mortality during the first year of life and have an increased risk of developing respiratory and gastrointestinal infections and diseases such as necrotising enterocolitis and sepsis compared with breast-fed infants.the health promoting effects of human milk have been linked to the abundance of bioactive molecules pres- ent therein including secretory antibodies immune cells antimicrobial proteins such as lactoferrin cd14 and lysozyme regulatory cytokines and human milk oligosaccharides hmos.

for example the high relative abundance of proteobacteria and bacteroidetes in human milk was largely attributable to the gen- era pseudomonas and variovorax and elizabethkingia and flavobacterium respectively which were exclusive to human milk.

also of note was mother-infant pair 9 where haemophilus was detected at a relative abundance of 24 in the human milk sample and 33 in the infant fecal microbiota at week 1. the mean relative abundance for haemophilus in other human milk samples at week 1 was 0.1 and 0.5 in infant faeces.principal coordinate analysis pcoa plots using weighted unifrac distances demonstrated a clear separation of milk and faecal samples at each week supplementary figure 1. there were no distinct clusters of milk sam- ples over time although bacterial communities clustered more closely to one another at week 12 than at week 1 supplementary figure 2a.

breve and l. plantarum which indicated that these isolates belonged to the same strain 5.table 1. shared genera between human milk and infant faeces at each week as average percentage relative abundances and p-values.discussionthe benefits of human milk in terms of infant health and development have been well documented.

staphylococcus epidermis in particular appears to have a biological relevance as it has been shown to be the predominant species in human milk and in the faeces of breast-fed infants and is less commonfigure 5. pulse-field gel electrophoresis patterns of a xbai-digested genomic dna of b. breve isolates andb apai-digested genomic dna of l. plantarum isolates from human milk and infant faeces.

although not previously reported in the human milk microbiome variovorax strains of which have been isolated from the human oral cavity were consistently detected in all samples.the detection of large proportions of typical inhabitants of the skin and oral microbiota may imply that the origin in this case is secondary contamination.

for milk sampling sterile gloves were worn and the nipple and areola of the human were cleaned with chlorhexidane wipes clinell united kingdom prior to manual expression of human milk into a sterile tube.

openreceived 20 july 2016accepted 18 october 2016published 17 january 2017the composition of human milk and infant faecal microbiota over the first three months of life a pilot studykiera murphy123 david curley4 tom f. o'callaghan12 carol-anne o'shea34 eugene m. dempsey34 paul w. o'toole23 r. paul ross35 c. anthony ryan34  catherine stanton13human milk contains a diverse array of bioactives and is also a source of bacteria for the developing infant gut.

the aim of this study was to characterize the bacterial communities in human milk and infant faeces over the first 3 months of life in 10 mother-infant pairs.

the presence of viable bifidobacterium and lactobacillus in human milk was also evaluated.

miseq sequencing revealed a large diversity of the human milk microbiota identifying over 207 bacterial genera in milk samples.

a core of 12 genera represented 81 of the microbiota relative abundance in milk samples at week 1 3 and 6 decreasing to 73 at week 12. genera shared between infant faeces and human milk samples accounted for 70-88 of the total relative abundance in infant faecal samples supporting the hypothesis of vertical transfer of bacteria from milk to the infant gut.

