the microbiome must be given much consideration even at the very early stages of life.energy metabolism and gut microbiotawhat do gut microbiota do about energy metabolism and en- ergy homeostasis they are involved in carbohydrate metab- olism and salvage.

we wanted to find out what the current research on this topic was and what the effect of the gut microbiota on energy metabolism is as well the effects of diet on the microbiome and what effect the microbiome has on metabolic syndrome.recent findings obesity is thought to be due to greater calo- rie intake than expenditure.

this raises the notion that the use of antibiotics pos- sibly altering the gut microbiome might be an important driv- ing factor in the obesity epidemic.microbiome and obesitythe interplay between the microbiome and obesity is a com- plex one still undergoing much research with many factors believed to be involved.

based on this finding they concluded that not only does obesity affect the makeup of the gut microbiome but converse- ly changing the diversity of the microbiome could also change the energy balance in obese individuals.

here is what we do knowthe obesity pandemic parallels increased antibiotic use and resistance.altered gut microbiota has the potential to alter body hab- itus and energy metabolism through antibiotics diet and bariatric surgery.diet and sedentary lifestyle remain the primary drivers of obesity.obesity involves complex interplay between multiple oth- er factors that require more study like host genetics envi- ronment and gut permeability.compliance with ethical standardsconflict of interest the authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.human and animal rights and informed consent this article does not contain any studies with human or animal subjects performed by any of the authors.referencespapers of particular interest published recently have been highlighted as of major importance1.

curr gastroenterol rep 2017 19 59 httpsdoi.org10.1007s11894-017-0600-ythe microbiome that shapes us can it cause obesityendashaw omer1  hadi atassi1published online 27 october 2017 springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstractpurpose of review we sought to examine the effects of the gut microbial makeup on weight gain and obesity.

in addition the use of antibi- otics can alter the gut flora even from the earliest stages of life and the altered microbiome can alter our body habitus and energy metabolism through antibiotics diet and bariatric surgery.keywords microbiota .

one that has garnered much attention is the link between obesity and the gut microbiome.

their work was based on the thought that early life is a very important point for meta- bolic development and that changes made to the gut microbiome could lead to an increase in weight and thus obe- sity later in life.

mice with mutations in the leptin genes saw in- creased food consumption and the microbiomes of obese mice were transmitted to germ-free recipients who developed increasein total body fat again showing the effects of the microbiome as a factor that can contribute to the development of obesity .bariatric surgery can possibly even alter the gut micro- biota composition.

5 impact of diet on gut microbiome and human health .

in which they altered the gut microbiome of mice by administering antibiotics to determine the effects on inflammation and its causation of obesity and diabetes they found that mice that were high-fat fed and treated with antibiotics had a reduced amount of lipo- polysaccharide lps an important component of the cell wall in gram-negative bacteria resulting in a reduced meta- bolic endotoxemia .

fukuda s ohno h. gut microbiome and metabolic diseases.

2013361103-14. this paper provides a very good overall breakdown of the gut microbiome and how it can impact the development of obesity.

20147403230. permission granted via email message 972017turnbaugh p ley r mahowald m magrini v mardis e gordon j. an obesity-associated gut microbiome with increased capacity for energy harvest.

