our current study avoids these problems by using a natural clonal host species thus allowing for replicated genetically identical individuals to be reared under different environmental conditions.we use the freshwater crustacean daphnia magna a cyclic parthenogentic species that can be kept in the laboratory by exclusive clonal reproduction to test how different host clonal lines genotypes and acclimation temperature 20 and 28 degc influence the host-associated microbiota.

pcoas representing ecological distance among microbiota communities separate samples based on acclimation temperature 20 or 28 degc and d. magna clonal lines-0.4-0.20.00.20.4pcoa 1 11.38-0.3-0.10.1 0.2 0.3pcoa 1 7.90-0.3-0.10.1 0.2 0.3pcoa 1 12.63ru-bol1-1 gb-el75-69 fut1-2-1 ir-gg1-7 ch-h-149 it-isr1-8 il-m1-8 ru-rm1-009 by-g1-9 fr-c1-1 de-k35-mu11 ru-kor1-1 fi-n-47-20 be-om-2 se-g1-9 ru-yak1-1 fi-fhs2-11 fi-fsp1-1620 degc28 degcthe interaction effects of host clonal line x acclimation temperature may indicate that the genetic variation that exists in d. magna may enable diverse responses of their microbiota to a change in temperature.

although changes in bray-curtis distances between 20 and 28 degc were significantly correlated with changes in hemoglobin concentration p  0.021 showing greaterchanges in hemoglobin concentration in clones that had more similar microbiota between the two acclimation tem- peratures this relationship did not remain significant after accounting for multiple comparisons.overall the effect of host clonal line x acclimation temper- ature on the relative abundance of the most dominant otus suggests that d. magna clonal background has a non-trivial influence on regulating its microbiota.

for the procrustes analysis we tested for a correlation be- tween geographic distance and the microbial community at both acclimation temperatures separately.results and discussionwe use clonal host individuals to investigate the effect of host clonal line acclimation temperature and theirinteraction on host-associated microbiota.

we found that diversity of microbial commu- nity appears to be affected by host clonal host clonal line x acclimation temperature interactions based on phylogeneticdiversity and otu richness but diversity metrics that account for species evenness i.e.

despite potential for adaptive differences it is currently difficult to predict how each host clonal line responds to en- vironmental change until the ultimate genetic cues dictating microbial differences across host clonal lines are deciphered.acknowledgements we thank jurgen hottinger elodie burcklen marilou sison-mangus mahendra mariadassou lev yampolsky and members of the ebert group at the zoological institute for assistance in the laboratory and helpful discussion and feedback.

our analysis highlights the role that host clonal line and its inter- action with the environment has in shaping a host's microbiota.methodsexperimental designdaphnia magna is a planktonic crustacean found in small- to large-sized ponds and lakes with a distribution across eurasia north america and parts of africa.

data were rarefied to 2511 reads per sample and the effects of acclimation temperature d. magna clonal line and their interaction on microbial community structure were analyzed by anovas on distance-based re- dundancy analyses of principal components with 9999 per- mutations.

within qiime the deseq2 method  was employed totable 2 effects of host clonal line acclimation temperature and their interaction on the most abundant otus of daphnia magna.

we found that host clonal line x acclimation temperature interactions af- fect the community structure and the relative abundance of the dominant members of d. magna microbiota.

magna in both temperatures tend to be skewed by a few number of microbes with high relative abundance and many constituents with low relative abundance and thus having a smaller impact on diversity measurements that incorporate evenness.based on bray-curtis jaccard and unweighted unifrac distances the composition of microbiota differs due to the interaction of host clonal line and acclimation temperature table  fig.

microbial ecology httpsdoi.org10.1007s00248-017-1126-4the combined effect of temperature and host clonal line on the microbiota of a planktonic crustaceankaren e. sullam1  samuel pichon12  tobias m. m. schaer1  dieter ebert1received 22 march 2017  accepted 8 december 2017 springer sciencebusiness media llc part of springer nature 2017abstracthost-associated microbiota vary across host individuals and environmental conditions but the relative importance of their genetic background versus their environment is difficult to disentangle.

we used clonal lines from a wide geographic distribution which had been kept under standardized conditions for over 75 generations.

the interaction of the host clonal line and environment i.e.

our results highlight the prominent effects that host clonal lineage and its interaction with the environment has on host-associated microbiota composition.keywords 16s rdna .

