the pcr reaction was performed in a 20-ul total volume using microamptm fast optical 96-well reaction plate with fast sbyr green master mix applied biosystems foster city ca and 200 nm of each of the forward and reverse primers integrated dna technologies coralville iowa 52241. the pcr reaction conditions for amplification of dna were 95degc for 15 s and 40 cycles of 95degc for 3 s and 58.5degc for 30 s. dissociation or melting curves were generat-ed immediately after the real-time pcr run to check for non-specific product formation.statistical analysispower analysis was conducted using gpower statistical analysis and using the criteria that at least 25 difference in a species abundance between raom and osa will be observed based on a previous sim- ilar study a 20 standard deviation in each group an a of 0.05 and power of 0.80 we determined that at least 7 samples is needed for each group for the pyrosequencing analysis.differences in the relative abundance of all operational taxonomic units otus among groups were evaluated using distance based redundancy analysis dbrda 28. for the dbrda distances among samples were calculated using the bray-curtis dissimilarity measure which was based on the relative abundances of all otus in each sam- ple.

original article the adenoid microbiome in recurrent acute otitis media and obstructive sleep apneacarolyn o. dirain rodrigo c. silva william o. collins patrick j. antonellidepartment of otolaryngology university of florida gainesville usaintroductionacute otitis media aom is one of the most common infections in children with approximately 50 to 85 of children experienc- ing at least one episode of aom by two to three years of age 1 2. by three years about 46 of children experience three or more episodes of aom.

the ages of the subjects ranged from two to 11 years with a mean age of 5.6 years table 1. the age range oftable 1. study subjects205fosam male f female osa obstructive sleep apnea raom recurrent acute otitis media age is in yearsfigure 1. heat map summarizing the relative abundance represented by color of the 40 most dominant species in adenoid specimens from patients with recurrent acute otitis media raom or obstructive sleep apnea osa.

microbial dna for p. aeru- ginosa a robust biofilm former and a pathogen associated with chronic suppurative otitis media was detected on raom adenoids but not in osa adenoids 34. the presence of chronic pathogens such as p. aeruginosa in the middle ear has long been linked to the clinical disease 34. additionally our observation that adenoids from patients with raom have higher prevalence of s. pneumoniae in conjunction with the presence of p. aeruginosa may lend sup- port to earlier findings that the risk of p. aeruginosa otitis media is increased by prior acute otitis media due to s. pneumoniae in the chinchilla model 35.one factor that can contribute to the transition from a healthy to a disease state is the disequilibrium of the indigenous microflora or commensal bacteria.

clustering shows that the predominant species associated with raom tend to differ from those associated with osathe pediatric population used in this study was similar to the ranges in previous microbiological studies of the adenoids 20 30. there were more females n9 than males n4 in the osa group while males and females was about even in the raom group.all adenoid specimens analyzed with 454 pyrosequencing n5 each for osa and raom had evidence of microbes figure 1. us-table 2. comparison of the predominant microbes identified by pyrosequencingon adenoid specimens from patients with raom or osaing otu proportions of 1 as cut-off for considering clinically relevant species j. white research and testing laboratory per- sonal communication there were 42 and 64 different species in the osa and raom groups respectively.

s. salivarius is a predominant commensal bacterium of the oral cavity and also used as probiotics to control diverse bacteri- al infections including otitis media and dental caries 36. however using slightly more specimens s. salivarius levels did not differ be- tween adenoid specimens from osa n13 and raom n7 when qpcr was used to detect and quantify these bacteria.

adenoid specimens were obtained from children between 2 and 11 years old who were undergoing routine adenoidectomy for raom n7 or osa without otitis media n13.

sequences were first trimmed back to q25 and then run through a proprietary denoiser based upon usearch in order to correct am- biguous base calls and sequencer noise 25. sequences were then chimera checked using uchime and all chimeras as well as any se- quences less than 250 base pairs were removed from the data set 26. sequences were then stripped of their barcodes and clustered into de-replicated clusters at 100 subsequence identity 0 di- vergence using usearch 25. for each cluster the seed sequence was queried against an internal database of high quality sequences derived from ncbi using blastn.

the use of these techniques has shown far greater microbial diversity than previously shown with conventional microbiology techniques 15-17.gene pyrosequencing has been utilized to study the prevalence of bacterial families in nasopharyngeal swab specimens from children with aom and to compare nasal microbial communities in children with and without otitis media 18 19. in the present study we utilized 16s dna 454-pyrosequencing to compare the microbial flora at the species level in adenoid specimens fromthis study was presented at the american academy of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery foundation annual meeting 22-24 september 2014 orlando usa.

tano and colleagues have shown that the alpha-hemolytic streptococci from children with raom are less effective at inhibiting middle ear pathogens than those from children without otitis media 37. moredetailed genotypic and phenotypic assessment of these commen- sals may be necessary to explain differences between otitis-prone and non-otitis prone subjects.the relative abundance of fusobacterium nucleautum microbial dna was also higher in the raom group though the difference was not sta- tistically significant.

the threshold cycle ct is inversely proportional to the amount of target dnabold values with an asterisk represent significant differences p0.05 osa obstructive sleep apnea roam recurrent acute otitis mediain the sampleosa obstructive sleep apnea roam recurrent acute otitis mediatable 3. comparison of the most prevalent bacterial species for each specimen identified by pyrosequencingrelative abundance of bacterial species are shown in percentage  osa obstructive sleep apnea roam recurrent acute otitis mediausing qpcr and primers specific for 16s rrna total bacteria and s. salivarius we found that the threshold cycle ct the number of cycles required for the fluorescent signal to cross a threshold i.e.

the diagnoses of raom and osa were based on conventional criteria 22 23. subjects were otherwise healthy with no other significant co-morbidities such as craniofacial disorders or immunologic deficiencies.adenoids were obtained using curettage and were immediate- ly transferred into sterile specimen containers.

real-time pcr analysis was performed on all specimens 7 raom and 13 osa after liberating microbes from biofilms by sonication.microbial identification by gene pyrosequencingdna isolation was performed using the roche high pure pcr tem- plate preparation kit roche diagnostics indianapolis in following a modified manufacturer's protocol.

results were then compiled into their appropriate taxonomic levels.determination of s. salivarius and total bacterial load by quantitative pcrtotal dna from the adenoid specimens 7 raom and 13 osa were purified using dneasy blood and tissue kit qiagen valencia ca fol- lowing the manufacturer's protocol for dna isolation in gram-posi- tive bacteria with modifications.

prior to analysis relative abundances were transformed us- ing a logit transformation 29.data for s. salivarius qpcr were normalized with the 16s threshold cycle ct and were compared between the osa and raom groups using t-test jmptm pro 11 sas institute inc. cary nc.

