more specifically the hp-infected ad patients tended to have more serious cognitive impairments as shown by lower scores on the mini-mental state examination 64. hp infection might have an impact on the pathophysiol- ogy of ad through the release of proinflammatory cytokines and induction of oxidative stress for review see 65. hp eradication can prolong the survival of ad patients potentially indicating that hp infections may alter ad pathophysiology 66.furthermore other infectious agents such as herpes simplex virus human immunodeficiency virus and human cytomegalovirus are related to the pathogene- sis of ad 67-69 for review see 69. interestingly a new published study reported that a physiologic role of the a13 known to form pathogenic plaques in ad is as an antimicrobial peptide to protect against micro- bial infection in the brain 70. although such studies with pathogens do not directly address the protective roles of the gut microbiota it is possible that micro- biota dysbiosis may increase the host susceptibility to infections which could promote the onset of ad.fecal microbiota transplantationfmt is an extreme intervention that replaces or replenishes the gut microbiota of an unhealthy individual by transplanting the microbiota from a healthy donor.

pathologically ad is characterized by the extracel- lular deposition of amyloid-13 peptides a13 in senile plaques and the intracellular accumulation of hyper- phosphorylated tau that forms neurofibrillary tangles for review see 32. in addition neuroinflammation is regarded as a factor involved in the pathogenesis of ad for review see 34. though the etiology of ad remains elusive it is recognized as an interac- tion between genetic and environmental factors 35. apolipoprotein e apoe is one of the most common susceptibility genes composed of s2 s3 and s4 alle- les in which s2 is a protective allele s3 is a neutral allele and s4 is a high-risk allele for review see 36 37. in addition to the apoe locus recent genome- wide association studies have identified some genetic risk factors for late-onset ad among which is a rare susceptibility variant in trem2 triggering receptor expressed on microgliamyeloid cells-2 38 39 for review see 39. though the principal risk factor for ad is advanced age there are other conventionally acknowledged factors that play a role including fam- ily history susceptibility genes and cardiovascular risk vascular factors 39 40. furthermore a grow- ing body of evidence suggests that the human gut commensal microbiota modulates brain function and behavior via the microbiota-gut-brain axis.

more- over prominent cd14 immunoreactivity spatially related to the characteristic ad lesion sites was found in microglia in brain sections of ad patients but not in those of the control subjects 111. therefore the lps-receptor tlr4cd14 may play a role in ad physiopathology.in addition to lps a significant quantity of func- tional amyloid can be generated by many bacterial strains including escherichia coli bacillus sub- tilis salmonella typhimurium salmonella enterica mycobacterium tuberculosis and staphylococcus aureus and may contribute to the pathology of ad through the accumulation of proteinaceous mis- folded a13 oligomers and fibrils for review see 112 113. a number of recent studies suggest that clumping of proteins with prion-like behavior might be a phenomenon shared by several common neurodegenerative diseases including parkinson's disease and ad.

c. rodentium-infected mice displayed memory dysfunction only when exposed to acute stress con- comitant with a reduction in hippocampal bdnf expression and an increase in colonic proinflam- matory cytokine levels 41. amyloid deposition formed in mice brains after intranasal infection with chlamydia pneumoniae isolated from an ad brain indicating that infection could be involved in the initial pathogenesis of ad 62. moreover immuno- histochemical analyses of the ad brain revealed that astrocytes microglia and neurons may be infected by c. pneumoniae and that these bacteria were found close to senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles 63. the correlation between helicobacter pylori hp infection and ad has been reported in recent case-control studies.

hyperinsulinemia hyper- glycemia glucose intolerance hypertension and atherosclerosis are also risk factors for t2dm for review see 130. interestingly it has been esti- mated that up to 81 of ad patients have t2dm or impairment of glucose metabolism 131. insulinresistance and hyperinsulinemia trigger inflamma- tion and are associated with the increased expression of inflammatory agents that contribute to the onset of ad 132 133 for review see 132. more specifically it has been suggested that brain insulin resistance may characterize ad and promote cogni- tive decline 134. moreover glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists can protect the brain from defec- tive insulin signaling and improve cognition in a transgenic ad mouse model 135. insulin may facil- itate inflammation in the cns through effects on a13 through the following mechanism.

reported that ffar2-deficient mice ffar2-ko did not develop obesity despite being fed a high-fat diet 149. furthermore despite divergent metagenomic markers for t2dm between european and chinese cohorts two studies place emphasis on the role of butyrate-producing bacteria in regulat- ing human glucose and lipid metabolism 17 150. although a detailed analysis of the microbiota in patients with ad is lacking given the alteration in the gut microbiota related to scfas in t2dm which is a risk factor for ad we have reason to speculate that scfas such as butyrate may provide another mechanism for the development of ad.

additionally dietary intake seems to be a main short-term and long-term regulator of the struc- ture and function of gut microbiota for review see 156. moreover dietary patterns characterized by higher intake of low-fat plant foods and spe- cific plant-derived compounds may lower the risk of t2dm metabolic syndrome and even ad for review see 157. thus future randomized clini- cally controlled dietary interventions targeting the gut microbiota studies in humans are required to deter- mine the underlying mechanisms of diet-induced gut dysbiosis and the development of ad which may open up dietary-based intervention strategies in ad.

for review see 163 164. moreover stimulation of a.7 nachrs expressed on microglia cells can promote phagocyto- sis of a13 in ad 165. taken together understanding the modulation of vagal signaling pathway induced by the manipulation of gut microbiota which targeted to stimulate anti-inflammatory regulation in ad may have important implications for the development of microbial-based therapeutic strategies.the recognition of the potential contribution of microbiome-generated lps and amyloids to the regulation of signaling pathways implicated in neuroinflammation brain a13 deposition and ad pathogenesis are relatively recent discoveries.

as ad is characterized by impaired cognitive behavior we have reason to speculate about the potential role of the intestinal microbiota in the development of ad.

novel object recognition test and sponta- neous alternation assessed in the t-maze and reduced expression of the brain-derived neurotrophic fac- tor bdnf in the hippocampus 41. bdnf is a neurotrophin that is crucial for synaptic plasticity and cognitive function and has been found to be decreased in the brains and sera of ad patients and to correlate with a13 burden 42-44 for review see 42 44. however neufeld and colleagues found upregulated mrna expression of bdnf in the hip- pocampus of female gf mice 45. a significant decrease in hippocampal bdnf mrna expression was observed in male gf animals while a qual- itative increase was observed in female gf mice indicating that bdnf expression was modulated in a sex-dependent manner 46. moreover gf mice exhibit an increase in adult hippocampal neurogen- esis 47. adult hippocampal neurogenesis plays an important role in cognitive processes for review see 48. gf mice displayed microglial immaturity and defects in microglial proportions leading to impaired innate immune responses that can contribute to the pathogenesis of neurological diseases including ad 49. previously sudo et al.

many unanswered questions need to be addressed for this intervention including the optimal procedure safety issues and long-term consequences for review see 77.gut microbiota and agingas advanced age is the predominant risk factor for ad age-related changes may play a potential role in the onset of ad.

additionally during aging the blood-brain barrier bbb is compromised 96-99 for review see 96 99 which can not only influence the clear- ance of a13 from the brain but also the secretome and receptor-mediated signaling involved in the neu- roinflammation that is observed in ad for review see 100. in conclusion it is possible that age- related alterations in the gut microbiota facilitate inflammatory processes that may contribute to the neuroinflammation in ad.the potential role of bacterially derived lipopolysaccharides and amyloids in the pathogenesis of adbacteria populating the gut microbiome are capa- ble of excreting enormous quantities of lipopolysac- charides lpss and amyloids which may contribute to the pathogenesis of ad especially during aging when both the gi tract epithelium and bbb become more permeable.

interestingly recent data have suggested that gut microbiota can activate the vagus nerve and that vagal signals from the gut can induce an anti- inflammatory reflex with afferent signals informing the cns of the presense of inflammation to activateits efferents releasing mediators including acetyl- choline ach via an interaction with immune cells to reduce inflammation for review see 158 159. vagus nerve stimulation has been used successfully in the treatment of epilepsy and depression and is under investigation as a therapy for ad 160-162 for review see 162. epilepsy depression and ad are all closely connected with neuroinflammation.

the gut microbiota comprises a complex community of microorganism species that resides in our gastrointestinal ecosystem and whose alterations influence not only various gut disorders but also central nervous system disorders such as alzheimer's disease ad.

ad the most common form of dementia is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with impaired cognition and cerebral accumulation of amyloid-13 peptides a13.

