diet on the gut microbiome and subsequent changes in metabolic pathways in pregnancy has potential to significantly advance the understanding of the epidemiology of disease in pregnancy and on offspring health.early-life microbial acquisition impact on weight and growthsimilar to the programming of metabolism during fetal development birth and the early postnatal establishment of the microbiome have been linked to alterations in metabolism immunity and obesity backhed et al.

science 3516275. doi10.1126science.aad3311blustein j. attina t. liu m. ryan a. m. cox l. m. blaser m. j.  trasandel.

international journal of obesity 39 1331-1338. doi10.1038ijo.2015.84campbell s. c. wisniewski p. j. noji m. mcguinness l. r. haggblom m. m. lightfoot s. a. .

the relatively recent discovery of a link between the microbial composition in the gastrointestinal gi tract and obesity reveals a new paradigm in the field of obesity research backhed et al.

2014. current evidence suggests that reduced barrier function leads to increased levels of lipopolysaccharides lps which are higher in obese states and with metabolic endotoxemia boulange neves chilloux nicholson  dumas 2016. lps which are mainly a component ofgram- bacteria firmicutes are more likely to be absorbed in the presence of high-fat diets and consequently their absorption leads to increased inflam- mation challenging the immune system and contributing to the inflamma- tory state of obesity chakraborti 2015. in animal models which block lps-induced endotoxemia insulin resistance and weight gain are amelio- rated suggesting a possible mechanism of obesity associated with gut bar- rier function cani et al.

2016. where maternal obesity exists there is metabolic inflammation with elevated systemic proin- flammatory cytokine levels and elevated adipose tissue segovia vickers zhang gray  reynolds 2015. the expected changes in immune function- ing along with immunosuppression and increased insulin sensitivity are altered in pregnancy to support fetal growth including through increased maternal adiposity mueller bakacs combellick grigoryan  dominguez- bello 2015.data have shown a link between the intrauterine environment and obesity in offspring later in life gluckman  hanson 2007 sparano et al.

international journal of obesity 39 665- 670. doi10.1038ijo.2014.180nodine p. m.  hastings-tolsma m. 2012. maternal obesity improving preg- nancy outcomes.

2013. thus a proportion of meta- bolic changes resulting from weight loss are due to host-microbiome interac- tions independent of dietary changes.influence of pregnancy-related factors on the microbiome and offspring obesitypregnancy a changing ecosystem is normally a proinflammatory state which is further aggravated by obesity kalagiri et al.

journal of internal medicine 261 461-471. doi10.1111j.1365-2796.2007.01802.xgohir w. ratcliffe e. m.  sloboda d. m. 2015. of the bugs that shape us maternal obesity the gut microbiome and long-term disease risk.

ffa  free fatty acid cho  carbohydrate cns  central nervous system.dietary impact on the microbiome and gut-brain axisthe gut microbiome is composed of more than 10 million genes many essen- tial to the metabolism of complex polysaccharides and macronutrients louis et al.

evidence that the fetal environment includes exposure to the maternal microbiome is derived from studies showing bacterial invasion of the placenta amniotic fluid and membranes and fetal meconium gohir ratcliffe  sloboda 2015. the presence of maternal gut bacteria in meconium provides further evi- dence of fetal exposure to the maternal gut microbiota and indirectly the influence of the maternal diet in determining the infant microbiome makino et al.

2015. this function appears to be crucial in determining the link between obesity diet metabo- lism and inflammation.interindividual variation in community gut bacteria indicates the influence of genetic makeup aagaard et al.

furthermore when this species was introduced into germ-free mice it was found to be protective against obesity goodrich et al.

the factors involved in theetiology of obesity are multifactorial including genetics louis tappu damms-machado huson  bischoff 2016 diet inactivity changes in hor- mone release and signaling and inflammation louis et al.

finding a way to harness the gut microbial community to prevent obesity or facilitate and maintain weight loss has been investigated in several diet and surgery-induced weight loss studies cotillard et al.

