the heatmap also demonstrated that microbial structures at genus level of placentas differed significantly between gdm and non-gdm women with normal pregnancies figure 2.to compare overall placental microbiota structure in pregnant women with gdm and non-gdm women pcoa according to otus of each sample were implemented to provide a glimpse of placental microbial dynamics between gdm and non-gdm groups.

women who had the following criteria were excluded from the study 1 women who gave birth with a gestational age 37 or 42 weeks 2 women were diagnosed as diabetes mellitus world health organization 1999 hypertension nephropathy thyroid dysfunction and any other severe illnesses before pregnancy 3 women were treated with any medications during pregnancy 4 women with multiparous pregnancy and fetuses with genetic or congenital malformations asphyxia at birth neurological dysfunction or any other diseases 5 the presence of any antepartum infections and antibiotic treatment during pregnancy.

detailed information of these characteristics is shown in table s1.overall microbial structures of placental microbiotawe studied placental microbiota of women with gdm and non-gdm women with normal pregnancies.

we aimed to profile the placental microbiota of gdm and further define whether or not certain placental microbiota taxon correlates with specific clinical characteristics.

given that gdm is a high risk factor of multiple adverse outcomes we aimed to study the placental microbiota in gdm and further define whether or notcertain placental microbiota taxon correlates with specific clinical characteristics.materials and methodsstudy subjects and eligibility criteriathis study was approved by the institutional review board and ethics committee of peking union medical college hospital pumch no s-003 and the study conformed to the relevant regulatory standards.

each placental sample was placed in a sterile labeled cryovial then flash-frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at-80c for dna extraction and further microbiota analysis.dna extraction pcr amplification and sequencingdna was isolated from placental biopsies using the e.z.n.a.qr dna kit omega bio-tek norcross ga usa in a sterile class ii laminar flow hood following the standard protocol.

it indicated that there was a significant clustering based on glucose metabolic status during pregnancy figure 3.taxonomy-based comparisons of placental microbiota between gdm and ndm groupssignificant variations in the composition of placental microbiota were observed from the phylum level down to the bacteria level.

we found that the placental microbiota is composed of four dominant phyla from proteobacteria the most abundant bacteroidetes actinobacteria and firmicutes with the proportion of proteobacteria increased and bacteroidetes and firmicutes were decreased of women with gdm.

2014. one previous study suggested that excess gestational weight gain gwg was correlated with an altered placental microbiome among women who experienced a preterm birth antony et al.

moreover cord blood insulin leptin and igf-1 concentrations were not different between gmd and non-gmd groups table 1.characteristics of 16s rrna gene sequencingto profile placental microbiota structure differences between gdm and women with normal pregnancies bacterial 16s rrna gene v3-v4 region were sequenced by illumina miseq platform.

2016 our study demonstrated that the placental microbiota is composed of four dominant phyla from proteobacteria the most abundant bacteroidetes actinobacteria and firmicutes with the proportion of proteobacteria increased and bacteroidetes and firmicutes were decreased of women with gdm.

2012. collectively all the evidence supports the possibility that the changes in placental microbiota in gdm may be related to the increased inflammatory status and activated immune system in women with gmd.several strengths and potential limitations should be taken into consideration.

however our present study is still novel because it provided an important basis for further studies about placenta microbiota of women with gdm.conclusionin conclusion our study is novel in showing that a distinct placental microbiota profile is present in gdm and iscorrelated with clinical characteristics of mothers and infants including cord blood biochemical parameters.

placenta were collected from gdm women and women with normal pregnancies n  10 in each group consecutively recruited at peking union medical college hospital.

further analyses suggested that bacterial taxonomic composition of placentas from the phylum level down to the bacteria level differed significantly between women with gdm and non-gdm women with normal pregnancies.

