the ovarian cancer microbiome signature provides insights for the development of targeted therapeutics against ovarian cancers.introductionin the us ovarian cancer is the second most common and most deadly of the gynecologic cancers affecting 1 in 70 women with a mortality rate of 1 of all women gynecology-and-obstetricsgynecologic-tumorsovarian- cancer.

while signatures of poxviridae that are conserved across the family were significantly detected in cancer as well as the controls both matched and non-matched figure 1f supplementary table 2 highly specific signatures of certain poxviruses monkeypox virus myxoma virus yaba monkey tumor virus ymtv yaba-like disease virus yldv and parapoxviruses pseudocowpox virus pcp orf virus orf bovine papular stomatitis virus bpsv were detected only in the ovarian cancer samples figure 1f supplementary table 2. the specific parapoxvirus signatures detectedwere that of il-10 encoded by orf virus and bovine papular stomatitis virus and the a-type inclusion protein of pseudocowpox virus and orf virus as well as the glycoprotein of orf virus supplementary table 2. specific signatures of poxviruses detected were sequences of thymidine kinase 66r and ankyrin repeat 147r of the tumorigenic yaba monkey tumor virus 3-beta- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase of yaba-like disease virus supplementary table 2. also the majority of the polyomavirus probes significantly detected in the ovarian cancers were that of merkel cell polyomaviruses which were undetectable in the controls whereas the majority of the polyomavirus probes detected in the controls were that of sv40 traces of which were also detected in the cancers figure 1f supplementary table 2. among the retroviral probes detected in the majority of cancers werefigure 1 viral signatures detected in ovarian matched and non-matched controls.

the signatures associated only with the ovarian cancer samples are listed table 1. the different bacterial signatures unique or common to the control and ovarian cancer samples are listed in table 1 and represented in figure 2c.while signatures of pediococcus was detected with the highest hybridization signal in the ovarian cancer samples screened followed closely by that of burkholderia sphingomonas chryseobacterium enterococcus staphylococcus treponema and francisella log glog r  1 shewanella signatures were detected with the highest prevalence in 91 of the cancers figure 2a.

one case report showed an association of brucella 17 another has found that 70 of the ovarian cancer tissues contained chlamydia infection which was not seen in healthy controls 8. chlamydia is known to contribute to cancer by inhibiting apoptosis inducing dna damage response and increasing susceptibility to other infections 8. mycoplasma has also been found associated with 59 of the ovarian cancer tissues tested 18. we detected brucella chlamydia and mycoplasma in 76 60 and 74 respectively of the ovarian cancer samples screened.

in the present study we not only detected specific molecular signatures of herpesviruses hhv4 hhv8 hhv5 hhv6a and hhv6b in ovarian cancer samples but also detected the hhv6a hypervariable u47 region integrated at exonic intronic and intergenic regions as well as upstream regions of certain human genes and at sub-telomeric regions of chromosomes 4 supplemental table 6. there have been reports of hhv-6a and hhv-6b viral genome integration mostly in the telomericsub-telomeric region of several host chromosomes 60 61. since several diseases including cancer are associated with telomere dysfunction genomic integration of hhv-6a at the telomeric region could be a contributing factor to ovarian cancer.hhv6a integration was also detected at a number of significant genomic sites that may relate to the genesis of ovarian cancer 1 hhv6a sequences were found integrated 25kb upstream of the igfbp3 gene that encodes an igf-binding protein 3 igfbp.

the supplemental data contains all of the integration site data for all viruses tested.in conclusion our data suggests that due to the nature of ovarian tumor and its micro-environment significant perturbations have occurred in the ovarian microbiome resulting in a specific ovarian tumor microbiome signature.

further understanding the contributions of these signatures may guide additional research activities into the molecular pathogenesis of ovarian cancer.materials and methodsstudy samplesthe study was approved by the institutional review board at the university of pennsylvania protocol number 819358. the computerized records at the a tumor tissue and biospecimen bank and b the clinical archives of the department of pathology and laboratory medicine were searched and a total of 99 primary and recurrent or metastatic tumors of ovarian origin were identified supplementary table 1. both the metastatic or recurrent tumor were still of ovarian origin.

the ovarian cancer oncobiomeresearch papersagarika banerjee1 tian tian2 zhi wei2 natalie shih3 michael d. feldman3 james c. alwine4 george coukos5 erle s. robertson11department of otorhinolaryngology-head and neck surgery university of pennsylvania philadelphia pennsylvania united states of america2department of computer science new jersey institute of technology newark new jersey united states of america 3department of pathology and laboratory medicine university of pennsylvania philadelphia pennsylvania united states of america 4department of cancer biology university of pennsylvania philadelphia pennsylvania united states of america 5department of oncology university hospital of lausanne chuv lausanne switzerlandcorrespondence to erle s. robertson email keywords oncobiome microbiome ovarian cancer pathochip next generation sequencingreceived august 15 2016accepted march 08 2017published march 30 2017copyright banerjee et al.

unpublished.we have used 99 ovarian cancer samples and 20 matched tissue adjacent to the tumor deemed non- cancerous by pathological analysis and 20 unmatched control samples to define a specific ovarian cancer microbiome signature which is distinct from the signature of the controls.

whether or not these organisms contribute as direct drivers to the cancer or simply persist as bystanders or secondary in a supportive tumor microenvironment remains to be determined.resultsmicrobial signatures uniquely associated with ovarian cancerwe used the pathochip technology to screen ovarian cancer samples as well as matched and non-matched controls.

however there are distinct viral and microbial signatures in the tumor-specific signature.viral signatures associated with ovarian cancerthe viral signatures detected in the ovarian cancer and control samples are shown according to their decreasing hybridization signal along with their prevalence in figure 1a-1e.

figure 1g and table 1 shows the common as well as unique viral signatures detected in ovarian cancer when compared to the matched and non-matched controls.the data suggest a substantial perturbation of the virome in ovarian cancer.

among the conserved poxviridae probes mentioned a comprises the conserved probes detected significantly in the ovarian cancer versus the controls and b comprises the conserved probes detected significantly in the controls versus the ovarian cancers screened.

this suggests that the fungal signatures may be more tightly associated in this particular microenvironment than previously predicted.identification of parasitic signatures associated with ovarian cancerthe parasitic signatures detected in the ovarian cancer and controls are shown figure 4a according to their decreasing prevalence.

the other parasitic signatures detected in the ovarian cancer listed in figure 4a were detected with lower hybridization signalintensity log glog r  1 although with high prevalence except for signatures of loa loa acanthamoeba taenia dicrocoelium wuchereria which were detected in less than 45 of the ovarian cancer samples screened.

