il-22 that eliminate the microbiota do humans and mice who are stressed release host stress-derived compensatory factors that induce salmonella to express these virulence factors that then determine if and how infection occurs     the last is a particularly important question given that we know that host stress depletes the microbiota activates il-22   which further can deplete the microbiota releases cytokines that directly signal bacteria to activate their quorum sensing circuits  and diminishes local resources   i.e.

yet understanding how the microbiota collapse following host stress how the pathobiota emerge to achieve a new state of equilibrium with the host and whether the resilience of the host to achieverecovery depends on the ability of the microbiota to refaunate remains a challenging but important line of inquiry  .is host recovery from stress dependent on the ability of the microbiota to refaunatewhile resilience to host injury and recovery from infection is generally attributed to a robust host immune clearance mechanism emerging knowledge in microbiome science suggests that the intestinal microbiome plays a key role in driving a recovery-directed immune response  .

it could be postulated that the intestinal microbiota sense that the host is under duress and decrease their growth rate and metabolism both anticipating that resourceswill be limited and that the host cannot tolerate activation of its immune system by the intestinal microbiota   .

the compensatory factors released in the gut during host stress have profound and direct effects on the metabolism and virulence of the colonizing microbiota and the emerging pathobiota.

in addition because of the promiscuous use of antibiotics to care for icu patients the protective action of the normal microbiota is essentially eliminated  .

thus at the same timethat compensatory host-derived signaling molecules are released during stress which shift the phenotype of its colonizing flora the normal microbiota are collapsing in abundance and function  .

such a scenario begs investigators to understand the role of physiologic and traumatic stress on infection-related outcome beyond their direct effects on the immune system and to apply a more holistic and systems biology approach to model infection as it likely occurs in vivo .how does acute host stress affect the abundance and function of the microbiotait is now well established that following a sudden insult to the host such as acute trauma myocardial infarction or burn injury the intestinal microbiota decrease in abundance and function by greater than ninety percent  .

the scope and molecular details by which physiologic stress interacts with the intestinal microbiota and causes immunosuppression remains incompletely elucidated.

in hospitalized patients who are critically ill we often see a near complete ecological collapse of their endogenous microbiota which is likely the result of both the patient's active disease state and the selective pressure imposed upon them by modern intensive care efforts  .

not only does the abundance of the microbiota become reduced in these patients but low- diversity communities often difficult to detect tend to proliferate and are represented by highly resistant and virulent organisms such as candida albicans enterococcus spp.

extensive work has been reported to understand the effects of antibiotics on the microbiota  .

broad-spectrum antibiotics can impact up to 30 of the bacteria among the human microbiota resulting in severe loss of taxonomic and functional diversity  .

this dramatic shift in the microbiota can develop immediately following antibiotic administration and can sometimes last for years after its cessation  .

many forms of host stress independent of antimicrobial administration have been shown to affect the composition and function of the microbiota  .

however less well explored is the possibility that host stress diminishes the protective intestinal microbiota in both abundance and function and that host stress signals activate colonizing pathobiota to express enhanced virulence    .

