nonetheless heritability calculations that only consider human genetic variables may lead to incomplete results as there is a close relationship between our genetics and our microbial communities.the genetic context of our microbial communitiesthe human body does not only provide a relatively stable and rich environment for its microbes but also affects their composition and behavior.

this high personalization suggests a deep relationship between human genetics and microbial composition supporting the idea that phenotypic resemblance within individuals may come not only from human genes but also from microbial ones.

after this categorization of each microbial genefunction for each individual the effect size can then be calculated asx- - uconclusions and prospectsto summarize the ideas presented in this paper we consider human weight as an example of a trait where both human and microbial genetics are key factors to understand the missing heritability problem.

c human genotypes interact with the composition and structure of our microbiome but cannot by themselves explain microbial variation.d microbial genetic composition can be strongly influenced by the host's behavior its environment or by vertical and horizontal transmissions from other hosts.

2015. these microbes interact with our metabolism in numerous ways and understanding the precise functionality and implications of these microbial organisms is a complex endeavor.the influence of the microbiome on human biology has encouraged attention-grabbing statements in the literature such as calling our microbiome an additional organ or referring to the human body as a super-organism baquero and nombela 2012. however these denominations can be misleading as organs are composed of cells with the same genome and a superorganism denotes an eusocial colony of individuals of the same species bordenstein et al.

after transplanting fecal microbial communities from an obese human to gf mice human microbes were established and transmitted across generations of mice along with the obese phenotype suggesting that important phenotypes can be transmitted across multiple generations through the microbiome turnbaugh et al.

thanks to the human microbiome project cheaper low-depth sequencing techniques are available that yield reasonable descriptions of human microbial samples.

it follows that estimates of heritability of weight gain in familial studies may seriously overestimate the role of human genetics heritability up to 90 compared to 2 in gwas and in accordance to our hypothesis probably such heritability arises from linear genetic effects of the microbes that are shared in such families.we suggest that most estimates of the heritability of bmi and other human phenotypes will be significantly improved if the similarity between microbial composition and function is taken into account.to make this paper self-contained we first reviewed the role of the microbiota in physiology.

in this sense microbial changes associated with obesity probably have to do with subject-dependent microbial population structures such as the relative abundances of certain species or functions rather than with the presence or absence of a particular phylum walters et al.

gf mice have proved to be excellent models for studying microbial transplants because the microbial community of the host is controlled and so are many other variables such as genetics diet and environment.

first of all despite that microbial composition may depend on our genetics to a certain degree microbial genes are not ours.

mwas and 16s rrna sequencing have shown a clear difference between obese and lean individuals inwhere nik is the number of individuals in the population that belong to the kth category of the ith gene and sik is thestandard deviation of this quantity whereas nik and sik are thecorresponding quantities for individuals that do not belong to thekth category of the ith gene.with this effect sizes calculated for each category in each microbial gene we can now compute the linear contribuition of the microbial genes to the heritability of the trait in question.

2011.among all possible human genetic variation the one occurring in genes related to the immune response has one of the highest potentials to influence microbial composition.

however instead of analyzing specific genes and their effects on the microbiome these studies have looked into human geneticdiversity and its relation with the heterogeneity of microbial species their relative taxa abundance and their functionality.

phenotypic similarity in identical twins may come from the fact that both have a more similar microbiome between them than among other twins possibly due to similar environmental factors and the observed resemblance in weight gain is not only due to genetic variation in human cells but in microbial functionalities.

