we also demonstrate a significant increase in the expression of the gene encoding the antimicrobial peptide camp one of a family of peptides with known functions in regulating the local composition of the microbiota 60 62. interestingly other groups have shown the induction of muco- sal cathelicidin by statin simvastatin treatment 3 9 whereas the in vitro antimicrobial activity of neutrophils is also en- hanced following exposure to statin mevastatin 9. we also observed a significant increase in local expression of genes encoding inos2 and the mucin muc2 factors that are likely to impact locally on the composition of the microbiota 24.it has been previously shown that oral administration of cholic acid to rats significantly alters the composition of the gut microbiota 21 63. in our study rsv administration in mice reduced expression of cyp3a and cyp27a1 in the liver and reduced overall levels of gallbladder ca tca and tcdca and hepatic and fecal ca and cdca.

relative changes in gene expression were determined using the 2c method 31 with 3-actin as the housekeeping or reference gene.bile acid extraction.

b rsv influenced host expression of hmgr in the liver as determined using qrt-pcr.

c rsv influenced host expression of ldlr in the liver as determined using qrt-pcr.

relative changes in gene expression are indicated using 3-actin as reference gene.

relative changes in gene expression are indicated using 3-actin as reference gene.

a gene expression profiles of hepatic genes encoding key enzymes in the biosynthesis of bas in control mice or mice administered rsv.1000control800qrt-pcr amplifications performed on a roche lightcycler480 system using appropriate primers.

analysis of relative gene expression data using real-time quantitative pcr and the 2-delta ct method.

amplicons were pooled and cleaned using the ampure xp purification system beckman and coulter takeley uk and dna concentration was determined using the nanodrop 3300 fluorospectrometer thermo scientific coupled with the quant-it picogreen dsdna assay kit invitrogen.

results were filtered before tree construction and summa- rization by the use of bit scores from within megan where a cut-off bit score of 86 was employed 52 59. the qiime software suite was employed to achieve clustering of sequence reads into operational taxonomic units otus 5. chimeric otus were removed using the chimeraslayer program 16 and phylogenetic trees were constructed using the fasttreemp tool 50.

primers for rt-pcr were designed for targets using the roche probe finder v. 2.5 web-based software and performed using the roche universal probe library for mouse roche no.

04869877001. complementary cdna was synthesized by reverse transcription using roche reverse transcriptase enzyme roche using the applied biosystems veriti 96-well thermal cycler under the following conditions 25degc10 min 55degc30 min 85degc5 min and held forever at 4degc.

am j physiol gastrointest liver physiol 312 g488-g497 2017. first published february 16 2017 doi10.1152ajpgi.00149.2016.research article microbiome and host interactionsthe influence of rosuvastatin on the gastrointestinal microbiota and host gene expression profilesj.

the influence of rosuvastatin on the gastrointestinal microbiota and host gene expression profiles.

rsv treatment of mice significantly af- fected bile acid metabolism and impacted expression of inflammatory markers known to influence microbial community structure including regiii-y and camp in the gut.

