it is im- portant to understand the response of human skin micro- biota to the rf-emf from cell phones and personal electronic devices since this may be one of the potential mechanisms of a human health threat brought about by the disruption of the intimate and balanced host-microbiota relationship.

the growth of staphylococci from certain indi- viduals were enhanced under rf-emf and in some other cases the growth was suppressed which means the disruption to the balanced skin microbiota make it more vulnerable to infection possibly by those opportunistic pathogens or for- eign pathogens belkaid and segre 2014. these findings add to the ever-growing evidence that even cell phone level rf-emfs have the potential to negatively impact human health and that human exposure may need to be more strictly regulated.conclusionboth static and radiofrequency electromagnetic fields have significant yet variable effects on the growth of common hu- man bacteria.

under both smf and rf-emf bacterial growth was unaffected increased or suppressed per species of bac- teria and the responses seemed to be determined by historic exposure to rf-emf and life style.

these findings led us to hypothesize that cell phone level rf-emf disrupts human skin microbiota.

thus the results from the current study lay ground for more comprehensive research on the effect of rf-emf on human health through the human-microbiota relationship.keywords skin microbiota bacterial growth cell phone smf rf-emfintroductionwith ever-progressing technological advancements and the fast integration of electronic devices in our everyday lives sources of low electromagnetic field emf are omnipresentfor correspondence.

2011 gaudin 2011. some more recent study even argues that rf-emf should be classified as a group 2a probable human carci- nogenmorgan et al.

therefore we investigated the effect of weak smf and simulated rf-emf using standard laboratory cultures and isolates from human subjects' skin.

although the current studymay not be conclusive with limited number of subjects it is enough to infer the possibility of indirect effect of smf and rf-emf to human health through disruption to the human- microbiome relationship.

future mechanistic studies based on evolutionary response framework using genomics and transcriptomics tools along with a larger sampling size from distinctive cohort groups consisting of a distinctive demog- raphy and cell phone and other personal electronic devices usage history are necessary to further advance the research on the effect of rf-emf to human health.acknowledgementsauthors are grateful for the technical assistance by dr. ran- dall jean and his research team department of electrical and computer engineering baylor university for the re- emf simulation.

human micro- biota including skin microbiota has been linked to a very significant role in the health of a host human body.

our main hypothesis is that the growth patterns of different species of human skin bacteria will re- spond differently to both smf and rf-emf.materials and methodsstatic magnetic field experimentfor the static magnetic field experiment the laboratory cul- tures of three bacteria commonly found from human micro- biota escherichia coli atcc 25922 pseudomonas aeru- ginosa atcc 27853 and staphylococcus epidermidis atcc 12228 were obtained from microbiologics.

here we investigated the response of both laboratory cul- ture strains and isolates of skin bacteria under static mag- netic field smf and rf-emf.

rf-emf is generated by many electronics and household appliances such as microwave ovens 3-30 mhz and cell phones 300 mhz-3 ghz.

for ex- ample a wide range of sar can be generated and have a dis- tinctive effect from the same rf-emf koyama et al.

2007. the direct effect of emf on humans or others mammals has been studied numerous times with rf-emf.

