alpha-diversity indices also varied between ylri and nlri patients across quarters particu- larly in q1 fall and q2 winter  however these differences did not result significant p0.05 in our lriquarter lme model and analyses.box plots of phylogenetic alpha-diversity of microbiotas from patients with ylri and without nlri lower respiratory infections lri a and of microbiotas from ylri and nlri patients across meteorological seasons b.pcoa did not reveal clear dissimilarities in beta-diversity between ylri and nlri or any other variables in  since samples were not clearly depicted in discrete groups see for an example.

the samples were picked up by the study team transported on ice to boston children's hospital and stored at -80c.high-throughput sequencingwe aimed to sequence one tracheal aspirate sample per quarter four quarters total from both participants who acquired a lri yes lri  ylri during the study and those who remained healthy no lri  nlri hence rendering four samples per participant.

in other words we postulate that lris leave a detectable microbial signature.alluvial plots of mean relative proportions of most abundant  3 phyla and genera in microbiomes from patients with ylri and without nlri lower respiratory infections lri across meteorological seasons.the mean relative proportions of haemophilus pseudomonas corynebacterium and acine- tobacter varied significantly between microbiotas from ylri and nlri patients .there are conflicting data about the association between haemophilus and the frequency and severity of respiratory infections.

research articlethe temporal dynamics of the tracheal microbiome in tracheostomised patients with and without lower respiratory infectionsmarcos pe'rez-losada123 robert j. graham4 madeline coquillette5 amenah jafarey2 eduardo castro-nallar6 manuel aira7 robert j. freishtat2 jonathan m. mansbach51 computational biology institute milken institute school of public health george washington university washington dc united states of america 2 division of emergency medicine children's national medical center washington dc united states of america 3 cibio-inbio universidade do porto campus agra'rio de vairao vairao portugal 4 division of critical care medicine department of anesthesiology perioperative and pain medicine boston children's hospital harvard medical school boston massachusetts united states of america 5 department of medicine boston children's hospital harvard medical school boston massachusetts united states of america 6 center for bioinformatics and integrative biology facultad de ciencias biolo'gicas universidad andre's bello santiago chile7 departamento de ecolox'ia e biolox'ia animal universidade de vigo vigo spain open accesscitation pe'rez-losada m graham rj coquillette m jafarey a castro-nallar e aira m et al.

all analyses were performed in mothur qiime  r and rstudio .resultsforty patients were enrolled in this study of whom 20 had at least one clinically-evident lri ylri and 20 had no lri nlri.

further study is needed to address the interaction between microbes and lri during times of health and disease.introductionthe population of children with a tracheostomy is increasing  and these children are at high risk of developing lower respiratory infections lri  that require intensive care .

a retro- spective analysis of 917 children aged 0-18 years from 36 children's hospitals who received a tracheostomy in 2002 demonstrated that in the 5-year follow-up period the mean number of hospitalizations experienced per child was 3.8 sd 4.4 range 0-34 and 46 of the hospitali- zations were for respiratory diagnoses .despite this risk of lri there is no consensus about how providers should treat common acute respiratory infections in tracheostomised children  .

between the upper airway and the lung.tracheal microbiomes in ylri patients differ from those in nlri patientsmicrobiotas from ylri patients showed greater alpha-diversity than microbiotas from nlri patients and .

no symptoms of lri for previous four weeks since our goal was to determine whether microbio- tas from individuals who develop a lri are different from those who do not develop a lri.

hence although there are discrepant findings about haemophilus' association with lri the weight ofthe current evidence suggests that the higher abundance of haemophilus found in the trachea of ylri patients is indicative of a lri risk-microbiota .the genus pseudomonas is of particular importance because it includes several opportunis- tic human pathogens of clinical relevance.

our results provide a direct assessment of the tracheal microbiome diversity and its temporal dynamics in tracheostomised patients with and without lris.our diversity analyses show that microbiotas collected at times of health from ylri patients had significantly higher intra-sample alpha-diversity diversity than the microbiotas of patients who did not develop a lri nlri.

if healthy micro- biomes were fully restored after lri one would expect that microbial communities in ylri and nlri patients would have similar levels of diversity our results however seem to suggest otherwise.

2010 10304.pmidprevaes sm de winter-de groot km janssens hm de steenhuijsen piters wa tramper-stranders ga wyllie al et al.

2015. pmid.cremers aj zomer al gritzfeld jf ferwerda g van hijum sa ferreira dm et al.

ylri  patients with lower respiratory infections.clinical characteristics were compared between nlri and ylri patients using fisher's exact or mann- whitney tests as appropriate.lme models were compared using the function lmertest which performs automatic back- ward elimination of factors.

