One PCP sample was excluded from diversity analyses due to a read number  1000sample after processing.The dominating phyla in PCP- and PCP patients were Firmicutes with 41.3 - 34.2 SD and 60.0 - 31.8 SD mean relative abundance and Proteobacteria with 39.1 - 38.7 SD and 24.8 - 32.5 SDrespectively Fig.

It is unclear so far if a specific dysbiosis of the lung microbiota may promote uncontrolled colonization and overt disease in immuno- compromised patients like it is suggested for Aspergillus fumigatus Although we found differences in the mean relative abundance of the microbial composition of PCP and PCP- patients these differences were not statistically sig- nificant which was also due to a highly heterogenous microbial composition of the individual PCP samples indicated by high standard deviations for individual taxacomparable in its extent to the heterogenous group of PCP- patients.

The composition of the lung microbiome in PCP patients with presence of proteo- bacteria as second most abundant phylum indicates a shift towards the microbiome of critically ill patients with other diseases although the average abundance of the presence of proteobacteria tends to be lower in PCP patients com- pared with PCP- patients in our study.All patients included in our study received mechanical ventilation.

In this study we evaluated the lung micro- biota in broncho-alveolar lavages BAL from patients with pneumocystosis and critically ill patients without Pneumocystis pneumonia PCP by sequencing bacterial 16S rRNA amplicons in the V3V4 regions.

Thirty -four BAL samples of pneumocystosis PCP patients treated between 2013 and 2016 were in- cluded in the analysis.

Sample collection of PCP patients including direct DNA-extraction was performed over a period of 4 years 2013-2016 and PCP- samples from the years 2013 and 2014 were lacking.

We determined the sequence variants that were significantly different dis- tributed between PCP of both periods 2013-2014 vs. 2015-2016 and excluded them from further analyses.

Therefore we filtered the merged sequences output of PCP patients calculated the statistically significant se- quence variants by Kruskal-Wallis one-way analysis of variance by using the groupsignificance.py QIIME script with p  0.05 without correction for multiple test- ing.

One PCP sample was excluded from these analyses due to a sequence frequency of 251.

All PCP patients exhibited lung infiltrates in chest radiography.

