other examples of human genetic variation associated with variation in the microbiome are starting to emerge table 1 and figure 1. here we review the recent findings from human microbiome heritability analyses and gwass and the challenges emerging from the marriage of microbiome and human genetics.the microbiome as a complex trait in human geneticsthe microbiome is a complex community of organisms and many of its attributes can be mod- eled in studies that examine the role of host genetics.

given that the human gut  relating the human genome and microbiome415 access provided by arizona state university on 050518. for personal use only.table 1summary of human microbiome genome-wide association studiesmain findingsbeta diversity enrichment of genes involved in leptin signaling in obesity several other immunity-related pathways and kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes pathway primary bile acid biosynthesis.taxa 83 associations including hla-dra selenomonas in the throat tlr1 lautropia in the tongue dorsum and lct bifidobacterium in the gastrointestinal tract.main findingssignificant associations with at least eight bacterial taxa including akkermansia with a variant near pld1.gene set enrichment analysis identified enrichment of variants involved in olfactory receptor activity with five taxa.stomach and intestines were identified as candidate tissues where host genetic variation may be acting to influence bacterial abundance of genusfaecalibacterium.main findingsno significant associations after correcting for skewness and kurtosis of beta-diversity distributions.continued access provided by arizona state university on 050518. for personal use only.table 1continuedmain findings92 significant associations with otus and taxa.

all rights reservedkeywordsmicrobiome genome-wide association studies heritability microbiota composition human studiesabstractthe body's microbiome composed of microbial cells that number in the trillions is involved in human health and disease in ways that are just start- ing to emerge.

never- theless associations between microbes or microbial genes and human genes have emerged that are consistent between human populations.

most notably higher levels of beneficial gut bacteria called bifidobacteria are associated with the human lactase nonpersister genotype which typically confers lac- tose intolerance in several different human populations.

results from separate studies can then be compared with each other to identify taxa that are reproducibly associated with variants in the genome 9 19 68. this brings to light the critical importance of validating suggestive associations across studies until larger more powerful studies reduce the numbers of false positives.bifidobacterium and human lactase persistencethe most consistent signal to have emerged from human gut microbiome gwass to date is the association between bifidobacterium in the fecal microbiota and snps near the lct gene on chromosome 2 first reported by blekhman et al.

finally multiple lines of evidence point to human genetic influence on the abundance of distinct microbial pathways and functions.424goodrich et al.lactase persistencelactase nonpersistencefigure 2interaction between the human lactase nonpersister genotype bifidobacterium abundance and lactose in the host's diet.

both akkermansia and blautia have been linked to obesity-related phenotypes 3 14 21. the overlap observed between genetic variants associated with both microbiome attributes and complex diseases motivates further investigation to better understand how human genetic variation impacts the microbiome in the context of these diseases.specific human genes and proteins implicatedthe gene slit3 has been reported by three studies as having an association with some aspect of the microbiome.

the machinery required for riboflavin synthesis has been found in the genomes of most of the bacteroidetes fusobacteria and proteobacteria exam- ined whereas a complete riboflavin operon was present in only about half of the firmicutes and almost no actinobacteria 44 61. riboflavin can be used as a redox mediator by faecalibacterium428goodrich et al.prausnitzii to facilitate extracellular electron transfer which consequently promotes its growth 34. increased riboflavin metabolism has been observed in individuals with ulcerative colitis 36 whereas f. prausnitzii abundance is reduced in individuals with ibd 58. riboflavin biosynthesis was correlated with snps near the gene clec4a which encodes a c-type lectin 5. members of this gene family have a wide range of functions including important roles in inflammation and immunity 8. as more studies use metagenomics to investigate which microbial genes and func- tions are influenced by human genetics comparisons across studies will be important for validating these initial findings.current difficulties when comparing across studiesalthough common themes emerge in comparisons of genetic factors that influence the human microbiome across gwass direct validation of specific associations is largely still lacking.

annual review of geneticsthe relationship between the human genome and microbiome comes into viewjulia k. goodrich12 emily r. davenport2 andrew g. clark2 and ruth e. ley121department of microbiome science max planck institute for developmental biology 72076 tu bingen germany email 2department of molecular biology and genetics cornell university ithaca new york 14853 usaannu.

recently a role for human genetic variation has emerged as also influential in accounting for interpersonal differences in microbiomes.

thus human genes may influence health directly or by promoting a beneficial mi- crobiome.

however the use of genome-wide association studies gwass to identify human genetic variants associated with microbiome phenotypes has proven challenging.

it is time for the microbiome to be incorporated into studies that quantify interactions among genotype environment and the microbiome in order to predict human dis- ease susceptibility.413introductionmicrobes coat the body's surfaces.

in the human gut microbial cells reach densities of 1012 per ml and in aggregate form a mass of up to a kilogram constituting what amounts to an additional or- gan whose genome vastly expands the host's in size and metabolic function.

