as our understanding of the ipf microbiome evolves along with refinement and advances in sampling and sequencing methodologies we may be able to use microbial signatures as a biomarker to guide prognostication and even treatment stratification in this devastating disease.keywords idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ipf microbiome infection 16ssubmitted oct 26 2016. accepted for publication nov 30 2016 doi 10.21037atm.2017.01.56view this article at introductionidiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ipf is a progressive fibrosing interstitial lung disease which causes debilitating breathlessness an inexorable decline in lung function and ultimately respiratory failure 1. it is a disease linked to ageing with a median age at diagnosis of 66 years and carries a grave prognosis with an average survival of 2.5 to 3.5 years 2. in the uk there are over 5000 new diagnoses of ipf annually 3. a diagnosis of ipf requires a constellation of typical features on high resolution ct hrct andor histology demonstrating the characteristic pattern of usual interstitial pneumonia 1.with no single or dominant causative factor yet identified and treatment options which merely slow decline there remains considerable international research effort to improve our understanding of the pathogenic mechanismswhich contribute to ipf.

tang and colleagues demonstrated that one or more hhv were found by pcr of lung tissue in 97 of ipf patients compared with only 36 of controls p0.0001 14. immunohistochemistry and dual fluorescence microscopy studies of lung tissue sections from ipf patients demonstrated the presence of herpesvirus antigens in aecs lining areas of fibrotic lung that were also positive for markers of endoplasmic reticulum er stress 15. interestingly a study of asymptomatic at- risk first-degree relatives of patients with familial interstitial pneumonia fip found elevated levels of herpesvirus dna in lavage fluid compared with normal control subjects.

protected sterile brushes sampled the microbiome in the proximal and distal airways of two lung explants highlighting regional differences in the relative abundance of otus but nevertheless validating some of the bronchoscopy findings in particular the presence of the streptococcus otu of interest 18. to date there has been no characterisation of the lung tissuemicrobiome in ipf a disease of the lung parenchyma.the largest study published to date investigated 65 well- defined ipf patients and 44 controls which included 27 healthy controls and 17 patients with moderate copd 34. in the ipf group the mean dlco was 44.7 sd -13 predicted and fvc 76.5 sd -18 predicted.

this apparent survival benefit could not be accounted for by a difference in pulmonary function measures.the lung microbiomethe epithelial surfaces of the respiratory tract previously thought to be sterile have been shown using culture- independent techniques to accommodate dynamic microbial communities 21. molecular sequencing of the variable regions of the bacterial 16s-rrna gene can now be used to identify bacterial species in research studies of the microbiome clusters of bacteria sharing similar gene sequences are classified into operational taxonomic units otus which can be compared to 16s rrna reference databases 22. high- throughput bacterial 16s-rrna sequencing has been shown to identify bacterial dna in 95.7 bal specimens compared conventional culture techniques which detected bacteria in 39.1 bal samples 23.annals of translational medicine vol 5 no 12 june 2017page 3 of 6applying these molecular techniques to characterise the microbial flora of the respiratory tract in patients and healthy controls has highlighted associations which suggest the interaction between the microbiome and host may be relevant to the aetiology and progression of lung disease 24-29. furthermore differences have been found in the microbiome in severe asthma compared to non-severe asthma and controls suggesting that the microbial communities in the airway may influence disease phenotype 30.the microbiome in ipfthe first exploratory application of a culture-independent molecular technique in ipf studied the microbiome in bal from 20 patients diagnosed with an iip including 17 with ipf and 2 controls 31. using 16s-rrna gene pcr and degenerating gel electrophoresis dgge the study found organisms often associated with the oropharynx as well as uncultured bacterial sequences corresponding to the streptococcus neisseria and actinobacteria genera.

additionally taking a bal from one lobe of the lung may not be the representative of the microbiome in other lobes particularly considering the histological hallmark of ipf uip demonstrates spatial heterogeneity with areas of fibrosis adjacent to normal parenchyma 2. in ex-planted lungs from a cystic fibrosis transplant patient 16s rdna sequencing of tissue sections revealed regional differences in microbial communities within the lung 43.it is feasible that as our understanding of the ipf microbiome evolves and sampling and sequencing methodologies are refined the composition of a patient's microbiome may act as a biomarker to guide prognostication and treatment stratification.

plos one 20127e37708.idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis clinical research network raghu g anstrom kj et al.

mucin 5b promoter polymorphism is associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis but not with development of lung fibrosis in systemic sclerosis or sarcoidosis.

periostin promotes fibrosis and predicts progression in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

in support of this concept a murine model studying murine gammaherpes virus 68 mvh 68 a virus closely related to ebv showed that bleomycin resistant mice infected with mhv 68 then exposed to bleomycin had significantly more fibrosis than those treated with bleomycin alone 17.there are significantly fewer studies evaluating the role of bacteria in ipf and this may correspond to difficulties using culture-dependent microbiological techniques to prove the presence of bacteria it is estimated 70 of bacteria from mucosal surfaces cannot be cultured 18. the first study to evaluate the microbiological colonisation of the lower airways in a small cohort of 22 ipf patients using quantitative culture methods found pathogens in 36 ipf patients but nothing in the lavage of control patients.

am j respir crit care med 2016193464-6.seibold ma wise al speer mc et al.

given the findings of a trial evaluating co-trimoxazole in ipf one of the key questions for future ipf studies will be whether specific microbiome signatures in patients should be targeted with prophylactic antibiotics to improve survival.acknowledgementsnone.footnoteconflicts of interest the authors have no conflicts of interestto declare.referencesraghu g collard hr egan jj et al.

am j physiol lung cell mol physiol 2008294l1119-26.kropski ja pritchett jm zoz df et al.

am j physiol lung cell mol physiol 2012303l1046-56.molyneaux pl cox mj willis-owen sa et al.

cigarette smoke gastric micro aspiration particulate dust viral infections in genetically susceptible individuals results in an exaggerated wound-healing response 4. the ensuing deposition of excess extracellular matrix and formation of fibroblastic foci causes irreversible damage to the architecture of the lung with loss of alveolar structure impaired gas exchange and ultimately results in respiratory failure 2. this presumptive model of development suggests a role in ipf for both host and environmental factors with in all likelihood interactions between the two 5.studies which have explored genetic susceptibility to ipf have found increased risk with genetic variants involved in regulation of innate host response 6. specific examplespage 2 of 6include a single nucleotide polymorphism snp in the promoter region of mucin 5b gene muc5b rs35705950 encoding a key component of airway mucus and a snp in the toll-interacting protein tollip gene rs5743890 encoding an adaptor protein which modulates signalling through toll-like receptors tlrs 7-10.a study of the peripheral blood transcriptome from 130 ipf patients demonstrated up-regulation of four genes involved in immune defence including alpha-defensins compared with controls 11. these studies suggest genetic susceptibility in innate immune defence may play a role in the pathogenesis of ipf and lend support to the concept that infection through its interaction with the host immune system may contribute to the sequence of events that result in fibrosis.

there was a divergence in microbiota from upper to lower airways in 21 patients.correlating outcomes with biochemical markers to estimate time-progression in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis comet a multicentre cohort study retrospectively analysed baseline bal samples to provide insight into the potential role played by the microbiome in ipf disease progression 18. included were 55 ipf patients with no active infection at the time of screening.

