Bifidobacteria are often the major HMG-consuming constituent of the gut microbiota in breast-fed infants and may provide unique benefits to the newborn including reducing inflammation improving gut permeability and improving responses to both oral and parenteral vaccines.

76 7373-81 2010.Maynard C. L. Elson C. O. Hatton R. D.  Weaver C. T. Reciprocal interactions of the intestinal microbiota and immune system.Nature 489 231-41 2012.Gronlund M.-M. et al.

The principal fucosylated oligosaccharides of human milk exhibit prebiotic properties on cultured infant microbiota.Glycobiology 23 169-77 2013.De Leoz M. L. A. et al.

The establishment of the gut microbiota can influence an individual's lifelong health.

The infant gut microbiota is sensitive to dis- ruption early in life as it has unfilled niches and has not developed mature levels of colonization resistance.

The infant's own glycosylation system is also a potential influence on the develop- ment of the gut microbiota early in life however the temporal variation of an infant's glcosyltransferase expres- sion including the FUT2 gene remains to be elucidated.

Dysbiosis an imbalanced pat- tern of microbiota composition or colonization during early development is associated with a number of disease states including obesity metabolic syndrome chronic inflammatory bowel diseases nonalcoholic steatohepatitis atherosclerosis type 1 diabetes allergy asthma celiac disease kwashiorkor autism atopy and other autoimmune diseases reviewed in refs and The structure of an infant's intestinal microbiome is influenced both by the selective environmental conditions in the gut such as carbohydrate availability pH activity of the immune system and the arrival of bacteria into the ecosystem due to the sources of microbes to which an infant is exposed.

Microbial exposures and gut environmental conditions differ between infants in different locations as does the typical microbial community structure in an infant's gut.

Because short amplicon-based sequencing often lacks the ability to resolve species-level taxonomic distinctions the method of Lewis et al.

1-24 doi 10.1111cei.12269 2014.Hanson L. A. et al.

