recent studies revealed that the administration of scfas into rodent inflammatory models inhibited the disease by increasing the number of tregs -.to investigate the effect of scfas in autoimmune disease models we administrated scfas into mice and induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis eae type ii collagen- induced arthritis cia or antibody-induced arthritis aia.

these data indicated that oral treatment of scfas altered the phenotype of macrophages and further studies are needed to reveal the effect of scfas to innate immunity including macrophage.t cell responses in mice orally administrated with scfas.

these results indicated that the oral administration of scfas ameliorated eae.scfas reduce the severity of ciabecause the administration of scfa suppressed th1 responses and increased treg numbers we next assessed whether the administration of scfas modulated other t cell mediated auto- immune models such as arthritis.

in contrast scfas contributed to the exaggeration of kbxn serum transfer arthritis representing the effector phase of inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis.

histological assess- ment at 10 days after arthritis induction also demonstrated more severe arthritis with cellular infiltration and cartilage and bone destruction in mice administrated with scfas  .

a clinical scores of kbxn mouse serum-induced arthritis in b6 mice treated with orally administrated scfas 3 weeks before kbxn mouse serum-induced arthritis induction and throughout the study.

joint inflammation was scored as follows 0 normal joint 1 mild arthritis minimal synovitis without cartelbone erosion 2 moderate arthritis synovitis and erosion but joint architecture maintained and 3 severe arthritis synovitis erosion and loss of jointintegrity.

because scfas such as acetate propionate and butyrate are abundant in the metabolites of fermenting fiber we performed gc-ms analysis of cecal samples from mice receiving the various fiber diets.the levels of acetate propionate and butyrate were all increased in the cecal content obtained from mice fed the high-fiber diet compared with mice fed the control or low-fiber diets .scfas ameliorate the disease severity of eaeto address the effect of scfas on eae we treated mice with either acetate propionate or butyrate and induced eae.

these results suggested that scfas contribute to disease amelioration in cia as well as eae.oral administration of scfas ameliorates the disease severity of mog-induced eae.

to assess the effect of scfas on innate cell-mediated inflam- mation we examined the effect of scfas on the development of aia.

to investigate the effect of scfas on macrophage we treated mice with scfas for 2 weeks and measured mrna expressions of inos m1 marker arg-1 m2 marker inflammatory cyto- kines tnf-a il-1b il-6 and anti-inflammatory cytokine il-10 in splenic macrophages .

b the frequency of tregs in spleen spn and draining lymph node ln obtained from mice treated with scfas were measured using flow cytometry.p0.05  p 0.005 versus control.doi10.1371journal.pone.0173032.g003discussionin the present study we investigated the role of scfas in the regulation of inflammation.

scfas inhibited eae and cia associated with an increase in tregs and a decrease in th1 cells however scfas enhanced inflammation in kbxn serum transfer arthritis.scfas and fiber-rich diets that contribute to the enhancement of scfa production amelio- rated eae.

our finding that scfas inhibit cia as well as eae furtheroral administration of scfas ameliorates the disease severity of cia.

we demonstrated that oral administration of scfas ameliorated the dis- ease severity of systemic autoimmune inflammatory conditions mediated by lymphocytes such as experimental autoimmune encephalitis and collagen-induced arthritis.

