Intestinal dysbiosis has also been implicated in colorectal cancer and microbes may determine treatment response for non-in- testinal malignancies.For more than 10 years intestinal microbial alterations have been associ- ated with localised radiation in humans and mouse models.Importantly mice that lack colonisation of microbes ie raised germ free were resistant to lethal radiation enteritis indicating that the microbiota controls intestinal disease processes consequent to radiation-in- duced damage.In this context however the functional role of radiation-induced microbial alterations remained yet to be determined.In this issue Gerassy-Vainberg et al demonstrated that radiation-induced dysbiosis promoted susceptibility to radiation-induced injury and intestinal inflammation.

1 Is microbial composition or diversity a reli- able predictive marker of radiation-in- duced lesions 2 What is the impact of radiation-induced injury on viruses and fungi and what is their role for intestinal disease processes 3 Do specific bacte- rial species determine the inflammatory tone and how do they modulate inflam- matory responses 4 Is it possible to prevent or treat radiation-induced lesions by targeting the gut microbiota In this regard a recent study in mice demon- strated that microbiota composition is associated with susceptibility to radiosen- sitivity and that faecal microbiota trans- plantation alleviated consequences of irradiation.Whether these findings may be translated into a therapeutic approach for human radiation-induced disease deserves further attention.Funding HS is supported by Equipe ATIP-Avenir 2012 and European Research Council ERC-2016- StG-715776.

Consequent to dysbiosis intestinal inflammation in both disease entities ie radiation-induced enteritis and IBD may be partly driven by IL-1 receptor signalling.Thus the results presented by Gerassy-Vainberg et al suggest that common mechanisms arein part by modulation of IL-1b signal- ling.

 commentary The microbiota an underestimated actor in radiation-induced lesionsengaged in intestinal inflammation of different origin which culminate in dysbi- osis and consecutive derangements in the host-microbiota crosstalk.Harry Sokol123Timon Erik Adolph4These findings indicate that the micro- biota emerges as a critical driver of radi- ation-induced intestinal disease processesThe co-evolution of humans and microbes that colonise the GI tract is shaped by environmental factors and evolved to promote health.

Indeed the radiation-induced dysbiosis described is reminiscent to IBD and to colitis models in mice with notably a decreased abundance in Firmicutes and an increased abundance in Proteobacteria.

For example massive production of reactive oxygen species ROS is a shared feature of intestinal inflammation in IBD and radiation-induced injury.

Gut January 2018 Vol 67 No 11 commentaryMarchesi JR Adams DH Fava F et al.

201613691-706.Vetizou M Pitt JM Daillere R et al.

20153501079-84.Manichanh C Varela E Martinez C et al.

20081031754-61.Wang A Ling Z Yang Z et al.

