for example although pseudomonas was identified in all samples the relative abundance was variable with a median abundance of 56 iqr 17-80. moreover while some patients for example 11 and 21 were dominated by pseudomonas others for example 9 and 13 had a more diverse microbiome composed of organisms belonging to several different genera.changes induced in the microbiome following initiation of azlifrom our samples no differences were noted in alpha diversity in those samples collected prior to and post- initiation of azli even when samples were filtered on the basis of receipt of systemic therapy fig.

to determine if this may be the case we sought to define the changes induced in the cf microbiome following the initiation of azli and correlate whether microbiome composition influenced response to therapy.methodspatients and sample collectionsince 1997 the calgary adult cystic fibrosis clinic cacfc has kept and maintained a frozen repository of sputum from adult cf patients submitted for clinical assessment.

moreover it may be possible to use signa- tures within the microbiome of individuals with cf to predict treatment response to particular cf therapeutics.in this retrospective study a cohort of 24 patients with at least two sputum samples collected pre- and post- azli treatment initiation were used to analyze changes in the cf microbiota following azli therapy.

azithromycin has been shown to considerably reduce exacerbation frequency improveweight gain and reduce lung function decline in those with chronic p. aeruginosa infection it also has broad activity against microbiome constituents perhaps explaining its importance in cf treatment even dnase has been shown to release antimicrobial peptidesdefensins bound by sputum dna and induce changes in cultured organisms recovered following treatment initiation despite only 18 of samples being taken from patients during concurrent systemic therapies marked differences in the microbiota were found when compared to the samples from patients taken off systemic therapies.

5department of biochemistry and biomedical sciences mcmaster university hamilton on canada.received 3 november 2016 accepted 12 april 2017abbreviationsazli aztreonam lysine for inhalation bc bray curtis bcc burkholderia cepacia complex bmi body mass index cacfc calgary adult cf clinic cf cystic fibrosis cfu colony-forming unit dios distal intestinal obstruction syndrome dna deoxyribonucleic acid fev1 forced expiratory volume in one second fvc forced vital capacity iqr interquartile rangensaid non-steroidal antiinflammatory drug otu operational taxonomic unit permanova permutational multivariate analysis of variancerrna ribosomal rna sd standard deviation sdi shannon diversity index tip tobramycin inhalation powder tis tobramycin inhalation solutionacknowledgementsthe authors gratefully acknowledge the staff of the calgary adult cf clinic and calgary laboratory services in their ongoing efforts at ensuring the continuity of the biobank.fundingthis work was funded by the canadian institutes of health research cihr--award 364568 to mdp.availability of data and materialsall data generated or analyzed during this study are included in this published article and its supplementary information files.authors' contributionsall authors meet requirements for authorship having contributed significantly to the project.

or when restricted to those patients who had matched samples p  0.88. more- over no significant changes were observed when analyzing organisms at the genus and otu levels.changes in the microbiome associated with clinical response to azliwe further sought to determine if the microbiome may be used as a biomarker to identify patients more or less likely to demonstrate a clinical improvement on azli.

microbiome 2017 551doi 10.1186s40168-017-0265-7the effects of inhaled aztreonam on the cystic fibrosis lung microbiomealya a. heirali1 matthew l. workentine2 nicole acosta1 ali poonja1 douglas g. storey13 ranjani somayaji14 harvey r. rabin14 fiona j. whelan5 michael g. surette15 and michael d. parkins14backgroundcystic fibrosis cf is characterized by chronic lung infections and persistent inflammation resulting in progressive airways disease.

furthermore no significant differ- ence in beta diversity between pre- and post-azli samples was observed in bray-curtis pcoa plots and permanova when analyzed in aggregate p  0.52 ortable 2 concurrent therapies taken by patient cohort at the initiation of azli as part of their routine carefurthermore when we assessed changes in the microbial communities of samples post-initiation ofmedicationrespondersn  14nutritionalnon-responders n  10therapy based on whether they were collected during on n  35 vs off n  29 cycle of azli differences were not observed in sdi and samples did not clustercf specific multi-vitamin1410vitamin d1410pancreatic enzymes1210chronic oral antibiotic therapiesazithromycin119ciprofloxacin22other antibioticsa03inhaled antibacterial cyclingazli sole inhaled antibiotic125tobramycin supplemented tistip14colistin supplemented colomycin11respiratoryshort-acting beta-agonist119long-acting beta-agonist149inhaled corticosteroid82nasal steroid51dornase alpha dnase108hypertonic saline86gastrointestinalppi pantoprazoleomeprazole46ursodiol21ultratums1210laxative34endocrineoral birth control pill21insulin44oral hypoglycemic12otheraother antibiotics include amoxicillin cefotaxime and septrawhen conducted by setting constrains to the permuta- tions by patient to control for potential confounders p  0.68 figure b. however in samples collected post-azli initiation there was a significantly lower relative abundance in prevotella and higher relative abundance of granulicatella although the latter was present in low levels figure d. sensitivity analysis using restricted numbers of observations demonstrated similar findings although prevotella is no longer sig- nificantly different.

responders versus non-responders and therefore potentially biasing our findings.future studies assessing investigational cf agents would be well advised to prospectively incorporate sputum serum and urine biobanking of specimens that would allow for a retrospective analysis of factors associating with treatment outcomes including the microbiome metagenome metabolome infammasone and resistome as technological advancements continue.conclusionsresults from our study suggest that the cf microbiome is relatively resilient to azli perturbations.

mechanisms of reduced susceptibility and genotypic prediction of antibiotic resistance in prevotella isolated from cystic fibrosis cf and non-cf patients.

samples were collected as part of an ongoing biorepository based on when patients were in clinic as opposed to a prospectively enrolled study which would allow for scheduled collection of samples.

this biobank includes 13300 sputum samples from 275 adult cf patients collected as part of their ongoing clinical care.

1 taxonomic summaries of taxa present in 1 of samples n  162 for a cohort of 24 cf patients with chronic p. aeruginosa infection as a function of days from the initiation of azli treatment.

many studies have reported adherence is poor in cf and inversely associates with treat- ment burden given samples were collected as part of an ongoing clinical observational study we are not able to determine medication compliance beyond what patients self-report to care providers and is documented in the clinical record.

indeed prelimin- ary data suggest that normal flora derived from individ- uals with cf are markedly more resilient to the effects of antibiotics relative to those derived from normal popula- tions infrequently exposed to antibiotics .the present cohort and cf patients in general experi- ence a tremendous treatment burden with polypharmacy and multiple other antibiotics respiratory therapies and nutritional and gastrointestinal supplements that may further confound our findings.

