these findings reflect the fact that attempts to characterize the human core micro- biota have not been successful instead the concept of human core microbiome has been proposed.12the purpose of this review is to promote the uti- lization of ecological theory when trying to deter- mine the factors that drive the dynamics of the human microbiota.15-17 previously the diversity structure and functions of the human microbiome have been characterized14 as well as factors related to stability and resilience.12 coyte et al.17 studied the ecology of the microbiome and costello et al.16 provided insight into the ecological theory behind community assembly.

additionally pathways related to glycolysis carbohydrate metabolism and transport were differently enriched showing the imbalance of energy metabolism in ibd patients.132 thus even rather small differences in community can be essential for health if important functional properties are linked to changing taxa.the more specified the property is the more likely it is to be found in only certain bacteria as functions regulated by several genes are harder to transfer between individuals.133 this could mean that a strict human symbiont may have devel- oped many important functions interacting with molecules produced by human cells supporting the idea that key species are especially important in human diseases and that such key species are likely to share a long evolutionary history with humans.22134 currently a lot of information is miss- ing from functional estimates of human micro- biota but this study direction seems especially important.dysbiosis a consequence of dispersal limitationmany of the above examples suggest that gut microbial composition and health are related and that disease associates with dysbiosis.

a lake system can turn from a turbid state to a clear-water state after a single manipulation of the intermediate trophic level of fish prey.78 a comparable relatively mild perturba- tion to the human gut could be a sustained change in diet affecting the relative abundances of dif- ferent microbial groups25 and potentially also the metabolic activity of the entire community.79 simi- larly helminth parasites can influence the composi- tion of gut microbiota80 such that parasite removal will have cascading effects on the gut community.taking antibiotics on the other hand is a major perturbation to the gut microbiota comparableto an intensive forest fire.

the role of the microbiome in health and disease has also been reviewed.1819 here we will particularly concentrate on address- ing the role of microbial diversity versus the actual community composition in human health and link underlying ecological processes to observed patterns in the human microbiota with a focus on disease states.the ecology of human microbiota in theory and practicethe human microbiota consists of millions of bacte- rial archaeal and small eukaryotic cells and viruses living in our bodies with bacteria being the most studied.

gut 63 559-566.kelly d. et al.

gut 53 1388-1389.arrieta m.-c. et al.

gut 65 225- 237.moeller a.h. et al.

similar findings were observed in asthma patients whose gut microbiota was less diverse during wheezing episodes.123 willing et al.124 discovered that the gut microbial diversity was sig- nificantly lower in twins who had crohn's disease when compared with healthy twin pairs but no dif- ference was found in the case of ulcerative colitis.

in a developing human gut commu- nity the microaerophilic environment is colonized by facultative aerobes that consume the oxygen change the environment to strictly anaerobic and are ultimately displaced by obligate anaerobes.16skin is the largest human organ serving as the ultimate barrier between the host and the envi- ronment.

this progressive loss combined with microbe-poor environments that cannot overcome the losses through horizon- tal transfer can lead to extinction of some impor- tant key species for human health.64 a western diet which is high in fat and sugars and low in fiber can result in the loss of important gut microbes21 owing to either inability of some microbes to survive in a fiber-poor gut environment or strong competition from other bacteria.

2016. diet drives quick changes in the metabolic activity and composition of human gut micro- biota in a validated in vitro gut model.

hubbell f. he et al.

et al.

gordon et al.

11 69.huttenhower c. et al.

