for example our research team estab- lished an improved protocol called enhanced quanti- tative urine culture equc that dramatically improves detection of clinically relevant urinary mi- crobes.25 others have established similar approach- es.2426 we recently recommended a streamlined version of equc for use in clinical microbiology laboratories that uses the following conditions 0.1 ul urine obtained by transurethral catheter plated onto bap macconkey and colistin nalidixic acid cna agars with incubation of all agars in 5 co2 for 48 h.28the information from the improved urine culture techniques provides a more complete reporting of the microbes present in an individual's urinary microbiota.

as the collateral consequences of systemic antibiotic use are better understood clinicians and patients alike must become better stewards of antibiotics.since the mid-1950s the gold standard for detec- tion of uropathogenic microbes has been the stan- dard clinical microbiology urine culture protocol a method originally designed to detect patients with pyelonephritis.38 unfortunately use of the standard urine culture has been expanded well beyond this original purpose without any empirical evidence that this generalization was valid.

indeed some e. coli strains are used as probiotics.45most clinical urine samples are collected from voided urine despite the known risk of contamina- tion from the vulva.

standard urine culture techniques involve plating of a prespecified aliquot of urine onto culture media.

thus we recommend the description of below detection limits rather than sterile to describe urine specimens that have no sequenced bacterial dna.49in the majority of urine samples that provide 16s rrna sequences a main feature of the fum is its tendency to be dominated by a single genus most often by lactobacillus.

in addition there are statistical associations between uui symptoms and several bacterial species including actinomyces neuii act- inotignum schaalii formerly actinobaculum scha- alii aerococcus urinae corynebacterium coyleae corynebacterium riegelii oligella urethralis and streptococcus anginosus.21 several of these species are considered uropathogens however most would not be detected by standard urine culture high- lighting the need for the improved urine culture techniques described earlier in this paper.

j clin microbiol 2012501376-83. coorevits l heytens s boelens j claeys g. the resident microflora of voided midstream urine of healthy controls standard versus expanded urine culture protocols.

urine is not sterile use of enhanced urine culture techniques to detect resident bacterial flora in the adult female bladder.

the history of techniques used for clinicalabbreviations bap blood agar plate cfuml colony-forming units per milliliter equc enhanced quantitative urine culture fum female urinary microbiota hmp human microbiome project nih national institutes of health rrna ribosomal rna upec uropathogenic e. coli uti urinary tract infection uui urgency urinary incontinence.citation brubaker l wolfe aj.

as expected compared to the human gut or oral cavity the fum has fewer organisms and is less complex.we have learned that the fum is detected in nearly all but not every urine analyzed.

the human urine virome in association with urinary tract infections.

the human mi- crobiome project a major research initiative funded by the national institutes of health nih began the process of cataloguing the core microbial composition of healthy adults to determine how changes to microbial communities microbiota affect human health.

urinary stones.overview of human microbiome sciencethe dual concepts that most human body sites are colonized with bacteria and that the majority of those bacteria are non-pathogenic are recent entries into clinical thought.

the microbiota are quite numerous in the human body there are 10 microbes for every one human cell and the vast majority of those microbes are not pathogens.

they degrade complex carbohydrates generate energy synthesize vitamins educate our immune systems and protect us against invading pathogens.researchers associated with the human micro- biome project hmp a major research initiative funded by the national institutes of health nih performed the first large-scale mapping of the human microbiota.

