germ-free c57bl6 mice fed a high-fat diet had higher levels of cholesterol in their fecal pellets compared to conventional mice on the same diet suggesting that the presence of a microbiota can reduce the levels of cholesterol excreted in the feces.

some members of the gut microbiota have been shown to have cholesterol reductase activity resulting in the reduction of cholesterol to coprostanol-.

was isolated from human feces and was shown to be able to reduce cholesterol to coprostanol although the gene encoding this activity was not identified.in this study we have screened a functional metagenomic library constructed from the microbial dna iso- lated from the feces of a healthy human male volunteer for activities that affect cholesterol solubilisation.

epi100 cells carrying a fosmid from a human gut metagenomic library were screened on lb agar containing 0.01 wv cholesterol for the production of a halo indicative of the presence of a genes on the fosmid that encodes a factor that has activity against cholesterol.

to determine what role if any the gut microbiota might have in cholesterol metabolism we screened a metagenomic library for encoded activities that might contribute to the solubilisation of cholesterol.

lb agar becomes turbid after the addition of 0.01 wv cholesterol through the formation of cholesterol micelles or crystals.

b the bvurs07120 gene was cloned into ptrc99a transformed into epi100 and tested for the production of a halo on lbc agar.bvurs07120 that is linked with the solubilisation of cholesterol and we have renamed the gene choa and the plasmid carrying choa was named ptrc-choa.choa produces a bioactive amine that solubilises cholesterol.

cholesterol has been shown to self-associate into micelles in aque- ous solutions and the critical micellar concentration of cholesterol in aqueous solutions is 25-40 nm.

in this study we routinely use concentrations of cholesterol ranging between 0.01-0.02 wv equivalent to approx- imately 250-500 mm in the lbc agar suggesting that cholesterol is forming micelles in our system.

44 137-142 1994.ren d. li l. schwabacher a. w. young j. w.  beitz d. c. mechanism of cholesterol reduction to coprostanol by eubacterium coprostanoligenes atcc 51222. steroids 61 33-40 1996.lye h.-s. rahmat-ali g. r.  liong m.-t. mechanisms of cholesterol removal by lactobacilli under conditions that mimic the human gastrointestinal tract.

7 3613-3616 2005.wilson m. d.  rudel l. l. review of cholesterol absorption with emphasis on dietary and biliary cholesterol.

openreceived 20 february 2017accepted 2 october 2017 published xx xx xxxxthe bacteroidales produce an n- acylated derivative of glycine with both cholesterol-solubilising and hemolytic activityalli lynch12 elaine crowley2 eoghan casey2 rafael cano3 rachel shanahan3 ger mcglacken3 julian r. marchesi 4  david j. clarke 12the contribution of the gut microbiota to the metabolism of cholesterol is not well understood.

in this study we identify 21 fosmid clones from a human gut microbiome metagenomic library that when expressed in escherichia coli produce halos on lb agar supplemented with 0.01 wv cholesterol lbc agar.

in this study we show that commendamide is capable of producing a halo on lbcagar suggesting that this molecule is solubilizing the cholesterol micelles in lbc agar.

cholesterol metabolism is very important for eukary- otes as it is a precursor for vitamins bile acids and steroid hormones.

