A set of two spit saliva samples were collected from ten volunteers total samples n 20 in a 50 mL sterile Falcon tube Becton Dickinson and Company New Jersey USA and an OMNIgene tube DNA Genotek Incorporation Ontario Canada respectively.

Drool samples were col- lected by asking volunteers to pool saliva in the mouth and expectorate naturally into a 50 mL sterile Falcon tube while spit samples were collected as described above.

Saliva samples 200 mL irrespective of the fraction were subjected to centrifugation at 16000 x g for 10 minutes at 4 degC to reduce bacterial activities in saliva samples to separate thecellular pellet from cell-free supernatant.

It was noted that although the human b-globin gene was mostly undetected in extracted gDNA from spit samples collected in OMNIgene using the Maxwell 16 LEV blood DNA kit the average Ct mean for the bacterial 16S rRNA gene was significantly higher at 22.51 indicating a low abundance of bacterial gDNA Table .Based on these collective results the Maxwell 16 LEV blood DNA kit appears to provide a more enriched bacterial gDNA extraction from our samples.

The Shannon index was determined for each sample with the oral rinse samples having a consistently greater mean value 4.83 compared to spit and drool samples 4.79 and 4.77 respectively although these differences were not statistically significant Fig.

Subsequently three types of gDNA extraction methodswere evaluated to determine the gDNA extraction efficiencies from saliva samples.

The purity of total bacterial gDNA was evaluated using the ratio of human b-globin to bacterial 16S rRNA PCR while16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing was carried out to identify the bacterial profiles present in these samples.

The advent of high-throughput genomic gDNA sequencing methods has revolutionized the field of human microbiome research with particular focus to date on the gut microbiome using faecal samples.In 2012 the International Human Microbiome Standards IHMS were concerned that the sample collec- tion processing and gDNA preparation of faecal samples may influence the data generated in human metagen- omics research studies.

Maxwell 16 LEV Blood Kit was found to be the most efficient bacterial gDNA extraction method when spit samples were collected in 50 mL sterile Falcon tube.

Contributors were asked to extract gDNA from the provided faecal samples using their own laboratory procedures as well as other standard protocols from literatures.

