aegypti by antibiotic treatment does not significantly impact blocking of denvto ascertain the effect of microbiome manipulation on denv infection rates we measured denv genome copies in individual mosquitoes by qrt-pcr.

currently there are no specific antiviral therapies approved to treat denv infection and new denv vaccines do not provide optimal protection world health organization 2016. the primary vector of denv is the mosquito aedes aegypti whose global range is expanding in part due in to urbanisation and climate change .

research articlethe microbiome composition of aedes aegypti is not critical for wolbachia-mediated inhibition of dengue virusmichelle d. audsley yixin h. ye elizabeth a. mcgrawschool of biological sciences monash university clayton vic melbourne australiaabstractbackground dengue virus denv is primarily vectored by the mosquito aedes aegypti and is estimatedto cause 390 million human infections annually.

aegypti with penicillin-streptomycin-kanamycin alters the microbiome composition without affecting relative abundance of wolbachiato examine the role of the native microbiome in wmel-mediated inhibition of denv in ae.

in spite of a significant shift in the microbiome composition in response to the antibiotics we detected no effect of antibiotic treatment on denv infection rates or on the denv load of infected mosquitoes.conclusionssignificanceour findings indicate that stable infection with wolbachia strain wmel produces few effects on the microbiome of laboratory-reared ae.

our findings suggest that the microbiome will be largely robust to wolbachia infection and that at least for the spe- cies manipulated here there is no evidence that 'third parties' are a critical factor in the expres- sion of wolbachia-mediated denv blocking.infection rate and denv genome copy number are unaffected by manipulation of the microbiome using antibiotic treatment.

we found that wolbachia has few effects on the microbiome and that even significant changes to the microbiome caused by our artificial manipulation had no effect on denv susceptibility in these mosquitoes.

aegypti following antibi- otic treatment elizabethkingia detected in 1919 mosquitoes chryseobacterium detected in 1119 mosquitoes and staphylococcus detected in 219 mosquitoes.

individual bodies were stored in sterile 0.1 ml 1 x pbs homogenised using sterile 3 mm glass beads in a mechanical homogenizer and stored at- 80c until processing for genomic dna gdna extraction and denv detection.quantitative denv rt-pcr analysisfor detection of denv genome copies one tenth of the volume of the homogenised sample was removed and added to an extraction buffer solution 10 mm tris ph 8.2 1 mm edta 50 mm nacl and proteinase k  in a 11 ratio.

a novel method for denv control involvesopen accesscitation audsley md ye yh mcgraw ea 2017 the microbiome composition of aedes aegypti is not critical for wolbachia-mediated inhibition of dengue virus.

aegypti with a combination of penicillin-streptomycin-kanamycin did not affect wolbachia-mediated inhibition of denv load.discussionin summary we profiled the microbiome of laboratory-reared ae.

aegypti to examine the effect of stable infection by wolbachia and the potential role of the microbiome in wolbachia-medi- ated denv blocking.

aegypti with antibiotics led to increased denv titres in the midgut  thought to be caused by a down-regulation of immune gene expression in the aseptic mosquitoes .

while the infection rates of the wmel line were much lower in comparison to the wt line as expected the antibiotic-treated wmel and untreated wmel groups had comparable infection rates of 9.8 of 11.5 respectively .to assess whether there was an impact of antibiotic treatment on denv load in mosquitoes with detectable infection we compared the number of denv genome copies in antibiotic-treated and untreated wt and wmel .

moreover our findings suggest that the microbiome can be significantly altered without affecting the fundamental denv blocking phenotype in these mosquitoes.

