further studies are needed to investigate whether and how changes in scfa-producing microbiota truly translate into changes in plasma levels of scfas.because gut microbiota plays a role in systemic inflammation metabolic syndrome vascular dysfunction and atherosclerosis modulating gut microbiota and its metabolites is a possible therapeutic strategy.

editorialthe role and impact of gut microbiota in cardiovascular diseaseimpacto de la microbiota intestinal en la enfermedad cardiovasculartakeshi kitaiand w.h.

these data support a gut-renal axis hypothesis contributing to the progression of cvd and ckd.the gut microbiota interacts with the host via the intestinalmucosal surface and intestinal epithelial barrier function is maintained by a well-balanced gut microbiota through several mechanisms including restoration of protein tight junction structure upregulation of mucin genes and competition with pathogenic bacteria to bind epithelial cells.

although it is clear that the composition of gut microbiota can be significantly altered in patients with cardio- metabolic diseases also known as ''dysbiosis'' much of the data remain largely associative in nature.

recent studies have identified the gut microbiota as playing a critical role in the pathophysiology of cardiovascular disease cvd and chronic kidney disease ckd.

these organic compounds with adverse biological activity are often referred to as ''uremic toxins'' such as advanced glycation end products and tryptophan-based metabolites eg p-cresyl sulfate and indoxyl sulfate.indeed altered profiles of gut microbiota composition have been associated with increased production of indoxyl sulfate and p-cresyl sulfate which is directly associated with endothelial dysfunction inflammation and oxidative stress and increases in the incidence of cvd and mortality.

plasma inflammatory markers such as high-sensitive c-reactive protein and interleukin-6 levels were higher in patients with bacterial dna in the blood than in those without.in a recent study a corresponding increase in the amount of fecal intestinal bacteria and fungi has been observed with increasing intestinal permeabil- ity in patients with heart failure.the discovery of trimethylamine n-oxide tmao production and the development and progression of cardiovascular risk adds another dimension to this complex interplay between gut microbiome and its human host whereby dietary intake a form of environmental exposure interfaces with gut microbiota to generate metabolites that may serve as promoters of cardiorenal diseases.

hypertension was associated with changes in the microbiota as well as in scfas.

prebiotics are nondigestible ingredients that selectively alter the growth or activity of certain species of the intestinal microbiota.

in particular the metabolic potential of gut microbiota has gained much attention as a contributing factor in the development of cvd and ckd.

gut microbiota and cardiorenal syndrome can potentiate each other leading to a vicious cycle.

