the bacter- ial and archaeal community structure beta-diversity of each group and sampling time was evaluated using the unweighted and weighted unifrac distances and vi- sualized as principal coordinate analysis pcoa plots using emperor functional analysis of the np microbiomethe predicted functional analysis of the np microbiome was performed using picrust phylogenetic investiga- tion of communities by reconstruction of unobserved states v. 1.0.0. picrust uses the phylogenetic compos- ition of a sample based on 16s rrna gene sequencing to infer the functional content of the microbiota for this analysis sequences were clustered into otus in qiime using the closed reference otu picking algo- rithm and the greengenes 135 database and all samples were randomly subsampled to 17700 sequences.

bmc microbiology 2017 1770doi 10.1186s12866-017-0978-6the nasopharyngeal microbiota of beef cattle before and after transport to a feedlotdevin b. holman1 edouard timsit2 samat amat3 d. wade abbott3 andre g. buret4 and trevor w. alexander3backgroundthe nasopharyngeal np microbiota of cattle is com- prised of a wide range of bacteria the proportions of which may vary between individual animals and throughout placement in feedlots -colonization of the nasopharynx begins shortly after birth and the microbiota continues to change as cattle age al- though it is typically dominated by members of the firmicutes proteobacteria and tenericutes phyla - the relatively abundant genera in the np microbiota include corynebacterium moraxella mycoplasmapasteurella psychrobacter and staphylococcus   .

as expected this core microbiota consisted of many of the most relatively abundant otus such as those classified as mycoplasma psychrobacter amnibacterium and acinetobacter.temporal changes in the bovine nasopharyngeal microbiota a number of changes were noted in the np microbiota of the cattle from the time they were sampled at the disease-free ranch d 0 and then after transportation and holding at the feedlot over 14 d. with regard to brd-associated bacteria the relative abundance of mannheimia did not change significantly over time p  0.05 although the np microbiota of one heifer at d 7 was comprised of 30 mannheimia fig.

chimeric sequences were removed using the uchime algorithm implemented in usearch v. 6.1544 sequences were then assigned to operational taxonomic units otus at 97 similarity using an open-reference otu picking method and the silva database v. 123 in this method sequences that were less than 97 similar to those in the silva database were clustered into otus using the de novo approach and usearch.

taxonomy was assigned using the uclust consensus taxonomy assigner with a minimum similarity of 0.8 and max accepts of three sequences were then aligned using pynast and a phylogenetic tree was created using fasttree  otus containing fewer than tensequences were removed prior to analysis as were se- quences classified as mitochondria or chloroplasts.to account for uneven sequencing depth across sam- ples each sample was randomly subsampled to 24500 sequences with the loss of one sample in the day 0 group.

however with an increasing number of studies showing the import- ance of the host's microbiota in relation to health  it is important to also evaluate the impact of production prac- tices on the microbiota of livestock.

recently bacteroides and ruminococcus alongwith other obligate anaerobic genera such as fusobacter- ium porphyromonas and prevotella were reported to be present in the nasopharynx of dairy cattle fusobacterium has also been isolated from the bovine respiratory tract although the nasopharynx is typ- ically described as being predominantly aerobic these re- sults suggest that anaerobic bacteria may form a significant portion of the np microbiota in cattle.although there was considerable inter-individual vari- ability many of the relatively abundant genera found in the np microbiota of the current study were also identi- fied previously as being among the most relatively abun- dant in the np of feedlot and dairy cattle in addition of the 20 most relatively abundant genera acinetobacter bacillus corynebacterium mannheimia moraxella pasteurella proteus psychrobacter and streptococcus have all been isolated from the bovinetable 1 differentially abundant kegg level 2 pathways at each sampling time based on picrustmean relative abundance - standard deviation.

the evenness equitability and diversity shannon's index of the sam- ples also varied over time with greater evenness and shannon diversity at d 2 compared to d 14.the np microbiota structure also shifted significantly based on sampling time as assessed using unweighted unifrac distances r-value  0.50 p  0.001 fig.

therefore in the absence of meta- genome sequencing we used picrust to predict the functional potential for the np microbiota using 16s rrna gene sequences.

an advantage of our study was using cattle with a known history and from a well-established disease-free herd that were managed under conditions limiting dis- ruptions of the np microbiota.the bovine nasopharyngeal microbiotain agreement with previous work on the bovine np microbiota the bacterial phyla proteobacteria firmi- cutes tenericutes and actinobacteria were relativelyabundant at all sampling times - one of the more surprising findings was the detection of euryarch- aeota 16s rrna gene sequences at an overall relative abundance of 1.8. although it is not known if these se- quences represented viable organisms the euryarchaeota phylum contained the methanogenic archaea methano- brevibacter which are most often associated with the rumen and gastrointestinal tract where they can com- prise 2 to 6 of the total microorganisms given that methanogens are considered to be strict anaerobes it may be that rather than colonizing the nasopharynx these microbes are continuously being re-introduced through rumination and eructation.similar to the methanobrevibacter the obligate anaer- obic genera bacteroides bifobacterium clostridium and ruminococcus were all relatively abundant in the np samples.

different uppercase letters in rows are significantly different p  0.05nasopharynx using culture-based methods mycoplasma which is typically more difficult to isolate is also frequently identified when appropriate culture- conditions are employed interestingly amni- bacterium was the fourth most relatively abundant genus overall although this was largely a result of 10 samples that had a relative abundance of greater than 10. this genus which belongs to the microbacteriaceae family has only been recently described  and included in the silva database explaining its previous absence from characterizations of the np microbiota.

species of amnibacterium have been identified in water and soil perhaps indicating that the environment was the source of this genus in nasopharyngeal samples.the effect of feedlot placement on the bovine nasopharyngeal microbiotathe structure of the np microbiota continued to shift during the 14-d monitoring period however the changes observed from day 0 to day 2 as determined using un- weighted unifrac distances fig.

functional analysis using picrust also pre- dicted that pathways associated with metabolism and dna replication and repair were differentially abundant between days 0 and 14. although feedlot placement did not increase brd-associated bacterial pathogens with the exception of mycoplasma the relative instability of the np microbiota immediately following feedlot placement may help explain why cattle are most susceptible to brd during this period.

the swabs were placed in the remaining swab suspension and stored at -80 degc until dna extraction.dna extraction pcr amplification and sequencing of the 16s rrna genetotal dna was extracted from np swabs using a qiagen dneasy tissue kit qiagen inc. mississauga on canada as previously described 16s rrna gene se- quence libraries were generated using a two-step pcr protocol.

sequen- cing of 16s rrna gene amplicons was carried out using an illumina miseq 2 x 250 and the miseq reagent kit v2 500 cycles illumina according to manufacturer's instructions.analysis of 16s rrna gene sequencesthe 16s rrna gene sequences were processed and analyzed within the qiime quantitative insights into microbial ecology software package v. 1.9.1 paired- end reads were joined using fastq-join with a percent allowed maximum difference of 15 and a minimum overlap of 35 bp  joined sequences were quality fil- tered with sequences being truncated following three consecutive base calls of a phred score of less than 25. sequences were retained only when 75 or more of the original sequence remained after truncation.

