found that the maxillary sinus mucosa is not devoid of bacteria 46.7 of positive results from swabs 41.2 of positive results from the sinus mucosa .reports in the literature on the state of paranasal sinus mucosa in healthy subjects is limited.

therefore identifying the consequences of the presence of oppor- tunistic bacteria on the mucosa in the carriers in relation to the reaction to pathogenic bacteria requires further studies.however the bacteria film in contrast to typical biofilm might be defined by the presence of bacteria that growth in colonies without inducing the inflammatory response.

this phenome- non could be explained by the theory of specific mucous characteristics in healthy subjects .conclusionsin conclusion the present study increased our knowledge of the presence and size of biofilm on the healthy maxillary sinus mucosa.

doi .funding the authors received no specific funding for this work.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.objectivethe aim of this cross-sectional in vitro study was to evaluate the mucosal surfaces of healthy maxillary sinuses explore different forms of bacterial microorganism colonies present on the mucous membrane and determine a mucosal surface area they occupy.methodssamples of the maxillary sinus mucosa were collected from 30 healthy patients m  11f  19. the material was obtained during the le fort i osteotomy performed during correc- tive jaw surgery.

pathological flora in swabs from the nasal mucosa or pathological lesions of the paranasal sinus mucosa were the main exclusion criteria from the study.

depending on the bacteria spe- cies the tests used were as followsbbl crystal gp--for the identification of gram-positive cocci and rodsbbl crystal n  h--to the identification of strains of neisseria haemophilusbbl crystal anr--for the identification of anaerobic bacteriabbl crystal e  nf for the identification of gram-negative enterobacteria and non-ferment- ing and also one-off tests such as the production of indole and oxidase as well as the presence of catalase.the cultures and all the diagnostic tests were performed according to the principles of microbiological diagnostics.sample preparation for microscopydirectly after swabs were taken the samples of sinus mucosa were fixed in 2.5 glutaraldehyde in phosphate buffer 137 mm nacl 2.7 mm kcl 10 mm na2hpo4 2 mm kh2po4 ph 7.2- 7.4 transferred within 24 hours and stored for scanning electron microscopy sem analysis at 4c overnight.

the studies conducted by brook in 1981 on paranasal sinus mucosa identified both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria .

in our study the presence of plant pollen on the mucosa confirms the aspiration path of bacteria to the sinus lumen .

all positive samples had mixed flora.local factors that may have an influence on the development of acute or chronic sinusitis include infections with bacteria viruses and fungi defects in mucociliary function swelling of the sinonasal mucosa and impairment of normal sinus drainage.

because thebiofilm is detected on healthy individuals sinus mucosa the clinical question if it may become pathogenic is unclear and require an explanation.introductionthe bacterial biofilm is typically defined as the concentration of microorganisms superficially associated and surrounded by extracellular polymeric substances eps.

patients lacking adequate clinical examinations consisting of endoscopic and radiological imaging were excluded from the study group.surgerysamples of the maxillary sinus mucosa were collected from 30 young healthy patients the mean age ratio was 21 years sd  569 who were operated on because of various forms of dentofacial deformations during orthognathic surgery procedures.

the ability to cultivate organisms from tissues and clinical samples like swabsscanning electron microscopy sem images of biofilm architecture seen on the mucosal surface of the healthy paranasal sinus mucosa.

b d- original magnificationx2000.scanning electron microscopy images of biofilm architecture seen on the mucosal surface of the healthy paranasal sinus mucosa.

however modern research on microbiota provides a lot of information about the organisms colonizing sinus mucosa in healthy individuals even though it does not allow to determine the size and location of biofilm structures.

2006 1215-12. epub 2005 oct 12.pmidsingh p mehta r agarwal s mishra p. bacterial biofilm on the sinus mucosa of healthy subjects and patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with or without nasal polyposis.

