but is this the case for fungi in the urinary tract as early as the 1850s clinicians were able to demonstrate viable fungi in the urine of asymptomatic subjects and note alterations in fungal composition in association with diabetes and renal diseaseagain in the absence of overt infection 21. but more than 150 years have gone by with little increase in our knowledge or understanding of urinary fungi.

saccharomyces boulardii is being trialed as a probiotic used in the treatment of diarrheal diseases 8182. with recognition of the role of fungi in graft-versus-host disease antifungals are being explored as agents to ameliorate disease development and severity 83. as we learn more about the role of fungi in urinary tract disease novel potential therapeutic approaches such as fungus-specificannals of translational medicine vol 5 no 2 january 2017page 9 of 12vaccinations fungal probiotics or targeted antifungal drugs may become plausible adjunctive treatments.conclusionswhile long ignored fungi are an essential part of the human microbiota.

in other disease systems the mycobiome is thought to interact with other biomes and the host to play a role in organ homeostasis and pathology further study will be needed to elucidate the role fungi play in bladder health and disease.keywords mycobiome fungi fungal microbiome urology urinary tract lower urinary tract symptom lutssubmitted nov 18 2016. accepted for publication nov 23 2016. doi 10.21037atm.2016.12.69view this article at introductionthe microbiome the aggregate collection of microorganisms within a physiologic niche modulates human physiology in ways that we are just beginning to comprehend influencing organ permeability and barrier function vitamin synthesis metabolism neurological activity and inflammation and immunity 12. studies of these microbial communities were previously hindered by limitations of culture methods but the development of culture-independent discovery techniques aimed at the detection of microbial dna has revealed complex populations in sites previously thought to be sterile such as the lung brain and breast.

in studies of the pulmonary fungal and bacterial microbiome in cystitc fibrosis 60 of genera were missed by culture 24. in one study of the oral mycobiome 11 of 85 fungal genera identified by culture-independent methods could not be cultured at all 15. in 30 of the participants non-cultivatable fungi were 50 or more of the fungi identified.

there are however significant limitations to this technology and unique challenges for fungal identification at every step of sample processing and analysis.challenges in fungal community profilingdna extractionprevious studies examining the optimization of dnaisolation and purification for analysis of bacterial species microbiome in samples with a standardized diverse bacterial community demonstrated that different sample preparation and dna extraction protocols have dramatically different results 1152829. while more extensive protocols utilizing mechanical disruption by bead beating and multiple enzymatic treatments consistently gave the best representations of bacterial community structure in no case did the obtained results provide a completely accurate picture of standardized samples 29. isolation of dna from fungi can be even more challenging than from bacterial cells as fungi are often more structurally robust and difficult to lyse effectively.

additional problems arise for fungi which have not been addressed or resolved in the literature given the lack of systematic nomenclature for fungi e.g.

thus it is critical to combine ngs-based determinations of microbial changes with alternative molecular and microbiological techniques to draw conclusions about the roles of particular population shifts in disease conditions.annals of translational medicine vol 5 no 2 january 2017page 5 of 121.00.90.80.70.60.50.40.30.20.10voidedcatheterizedcause to doubt this conclusion as this assessment was based on sequences identified from available annotated reference databases in which fungi are highly underrepresented 46. regardless the prevailing belief is that the total abundance of microorganisms in urine is orders of magnitude less than the gut with fungi comprising only a small percentage.thus for populations of low abundance as presumed for the urinary tract the difficulties detailed above with appropriate sensitivity are amplified.

in urinary samples the ratio of fungi to sloughed human urothelial and contaminating epithelial cells is unclear but presumed to be extremely low reducing the sensitivity of mycobiome analyses in lower urinary tract disease.low abundance of source materialin the gut metagenomics studies demonstrated that only0.1 of detectable sequences in the total microbiota were attributed to fungi 26 in contrast to the 99 that were bacterial.

using the ibis t-5000 universal biosensor system to identify microbes fungi were detectable in urine from patients with urological chronic pelvic pain syndromes 70. this approach recognized an increase in the number of patients with detectable fungi 3.9 vs. 15.7 during symptomatic flares while no significant differences in the bacterial microbiota could be identified.

regardless these transformative results implicate a role for fungi in lower urinary tract symptomatology that was not previously recognized.we have performed a preliminary culture-independent characterization of urinary fungi from a range of asymptomatic subjects manuscript in preparation.

while multiple lessons from other organ systems have demonstrated the close interplay between different kingdoms virtually nothing is known of how urinary fungi influence urinary bacterial community composition and stability.hopefully with a better understanding of the role of fungi in urinary tract disease will come the ability to use targeted manipulation of the mycobiome for therapeutic purpose as is becoming a reality in other organ systems.

while fungi likely play an important role in the maintenance of microbial community structure modulating immune function and influencing metabolism the mechanisms by which fungi interact with other components of the microbiome and the host remain poorly characterized.

almost nothing is known about these interactions in the bladder the field is ripe for future studies.acknowledgementsthe authors would like to thank dr. jie tang for his valuable insight and perspective.footnoteconflicts of interest the authors have no conflicts of interestto declare.referenceswu gd lewis jd hoffmann c et al.

bmc microbiol 201010206.backhed f ley re sonnenburg jl et al.

cell host microbe 201110287-91.pearce mm hilt ee rosenfeld ab et al.

