in addition to this symbiotic relation- ship the respiratory microbiota probably has a role in the structural maturation of the respiratory tract5 and in shaping local immunity67.current research questions address how the healthy respiratory microbiota is established and what ecologi- cal and environmental factors govern its development.

at 4-6 months of age have been shown to correlate to a stable bacterial community composition and respiratory health2122.birth mode and feeding type are important driversof the early maturation of the microbiota with children who are born vaginally andor are breastfed transitioning260  may 2017  volume 15reviews towards a presumed health-promoting microbiota pro- file more often and more swiftly2023.

by contrast the composition of the sputum microbi- ota seems to be influenced equally by host genetics and environmental factors37.although the gut microbiota matures into an adult-like community during the first 3 years of life38 the time that is required to establish a stable respiratory microbiota remains to be determined.

it has been pro- posed that the dynamic nature of the developing micro- biota early in life might provide a window of opportunity for the modulation of the microbiota towards a bene- ficial composition45 however the extent of this period of time is currently unknown.the microbiota of the upper respiratory tract gatekeeper to respiratory health.

culture-independent262  may 2017  volume 15reviews microbiota studies have confirmed that the lung micro- biota largely resembles the urt microbiota when stud- ied in healthy individuals74-76.

the contribution of the gas- tric microbiota to the microbial community in the lrt through gastric-oesophageal reflux has until now been suggested to be negligible74.composition of the lung microbiota.

a study in young children reported that although the lung microbiota was distinct from the microbiota of the urt it was dominated by species that are also present in the urt including moraxella spp.

given the low density and presumably transient microbiota in the lrt it could be speculated that the diversity of this microbiota is shaped by interbacterial relationships to a lesser extent than bacterial communities in the urt although little is known about the level of proximity and likelihood of interbacterial effects.bacterial associations that are detected in epidemio-logical surveys may also indicate the existence of joint host or environmental drivers and not the presence of direct or indirect microbial interactions per se.

although studies on the composition of the respira- tory tract microbiota did not show substantial differences between different developed countries the question as to whether comparable host and environmental factors regulate the respiratory microbiota of individuals living in lowmiddle-income countries remains an impor- tant open question.

in the past decade next-generation sequencing has led to major advances in our understanding of the possible functions of the resident microbiota.

so far research has largely focused on the gut microbiota and gut microbiota-derived metab- olites and their influence on host metabolism and immu- nity.

however recent studies on microbial ecosystems at other body sites including the respiratory tract reveal an even broader role for the microbiota in human health1.the respiratory tract is a complex organ system that is divided into the upper respiratory tract urt and the lower respiratory tract lrt.

inhibition of this first step of pathogenesis for respira- tory infections by the resident microbiota a process that is also called 'colonization resistance' might be of para- mount importance to respiratory health.

in this review we focus on the role that the respiratory micro- biota has in the development and maintenance of human respiratory health.anatomical development and the microbiota anatomical development and physiology.

similar to the anatomical development of the res- piratory tract the initial acquisition of microorganisms marks the establishment of the respiratory microbiota in early life.

