tel 323-259-1470 e-mail one sentence summary rubyspira osteovora is an unusual snail found only at whalefalls in the deep-sea with a gut microbiome dominated by bacteria not present in the surrounding environment.editor julie olsonabstractrubyspira osteovora is an unusual deep-sea snail from monterey canyon california.

this study characterized the gut microbiome of r. osteovora compared to the surrounding environment as well as to other deep-sea snails with more typical diets.analysis of 16s rrna gene sequences revealed that r. osteovora digestive tissues host a much lower bacterial diversity average shannon index of 1.9 n  12 compared to environmental samples average shannon index of 4.4 n  2 and are dominated by two bacterial genera mycoplasma and psychromonas comprising up to 56 and 42 average total recovered sequences respectively.

sections were ex- amined and photographed using a nikon e80i epifluorescence microscope and zeiss em 109 tem.resultsrubyspira osteovora collections and anatomyrubyspira osteovora specimens were collected between 2004 and 2011 from a whale fall in monterey submarine canyon table  fig.

16s rrna gene sequencing revealed that r. osteovora is colonized by a stable and specific microbiome significantly less diverse than the surrounding microbial communities.the unique and specific bacterial community ofrubyspira osteovorarubyspira osteovora has a specific microbial community domi- nated by three microbial genera mycoplasma psychromonas andpsychrilyobacter.

osteovora hosts a specific microbial community in its digestive system.figure 7. phylogenetic trees of otus with high-sequence similarity to psy- chromonas a and psychrilyobacter b isolated from r. osteovora digestive tract tissue in bold based on 250-bp fragments from barcoded illumina sequenc- ing.

methylene blue-stained thick sections 0.4 mm were used for r. osteovora tissue morphology and revealed intestinal epithelia columnar cells topped with very long cilia a stomach epithelia contained simple cuboidal cells topped with short cilia b and a digestive gland with ducts of columnar cells c. dapi-stained nuclei of r. osteovora cells blue a general bacteria-probe eub338- alexa green and a psychromonas-probe nor2-1453 cy3 orange revealed that bacteria were attached to the cilia c of the intestinal epithelia d. large clusters of psychromonas and other bacteria were also found in the lumen l of the intestine d-inset.

the relative abundance of these three groups remained similar over 6 years of sampling collection date was not shown to be a significant predictor of community structure suggesting a long-term association.furthermore these bacterial genera were either not present mycoplasma and psychromonas or at very low abundance 0.04 for psychrilyobacter in environmental samples and other deep-sea gastropods supporting the uniqueness of the r. osteovora gut microbiome.keywords deep sea symbiosis gastropod whalefall mycoplasma psychromonas rubyspiraintroductionnovel ecosystems often support unique biological communi- ties and their study helps to uncover earth's true biodiver- sity.

similarly rubyspira osteovora is a new genus of snail that was discovered in 2004 at this whale fall johnson et al.

rubyspira osteovora became abundant 3 years later braby et al.

osteovora not only increases knowledge about biological diver- sity in the deep sea but may also provide insight into their un- usual nutritional strategy.

this study aimed to characterize the microbial community associated with r. osteovora in comparison to microbes present in the surrounding environment and asso- ciated with other deep-sea gastropods that do not feed on bone.

rubyspira osteovora specimens were collected over the course of 6 years and the microbial communities associated with diges- tive tissues were examined via sequencing of 16s rrna genes and both fluorescence microscopy and transmission electron microscopy tem.

although the role of the dominant microbes associated with r. osteovora is still undetermined their distinct- ness from microbial communities from the environment and other deep-sea gastropods suggests a specific and exclusive mi- crobiome within the bone-eating r. osteovora.materials and methodssample collectionspecimens n  8 were collected in 2004-2011 from a 2893 m depth whale fall in monterey submarine canyon 3636.8n 12226.0w table .

rubyspira osteovora samples were collected using the robotic submersibles rov tiburon and rov doc rick- etts owned and operated by the monterey bay aquarium re- search institute via suction sample or sediment push core.

the normalized data for all samples is available from the dryad digital repository .mollicute-specific 16s rrna pcr amplification was used to rapidly screen for the presence of mollicutes particularly my- coplasma in r. osteovora in digestive gland.

