craig mak joseph h. nadeaumarcus b. noyesenrico petrettonicholas t. seyfriedlars m. steinmetz and sibylle c. vonesch1institute for systems biology seattle wa usa2department of genetics and genomic sciences icahn institute for genomics and multiscale biology icahn school of medicine at mount sinai new york ny 10029-6574 usa3department of medical biochemistry and biophysics vascular biology unit karolinska institutet stockholm sweden4department of physiology institute of biomedicine and translation medicine university of tartu estonia5institute for systems genetics nyu langone medical center new york ny usa 6german cancer research center dkfz and heidelberg university germany 7national institutes of health bethesda md usa8pacific northwest research institute seattle washington usa9departments of public health sciences and biochemistry and molecular genetics center for public health genomics university of virginiacharlottesville va 22908 usa10european molecular biology laboratory embl genome biology unit 69117 heidelberg germany11department of neurology emory university school of medicine atlanta ga usa12department of medicine department of microbiology immunology and molecular genetics department of human genetics university of california los angeles california usa13cell systems cell press cambridge ma usa14cardiovascular  metabolic disorders program and centre for computational biology duke-national university of singapore nus medical school singapore15department of biochemistry and neurology emory university school of medicine atlanta ga usa16stanford genome technology center stanford university palo alto ca 94304 usa 17department of genetics stanford university school of medicine stanford ca 94305 usa 18co-first authorscorrespondence cell systems invited 16 experts to share their views on the field of systems genetics.

with a focus on modifier genes and tipping points in the network biology of human health and dis- ease systems genetics may discover safe and effective solutions that nature has devised over the course of evolution.what makes a strong systems genetics paperaldons j. lusis strong systems genetics papers are well designed with sufficient statistical power and address important biologic problems.

in questions repeated in the headings we asked them to define systems genetics highlight its relevance to researchers outside the field discuss what makes a strong systems genetics paper and paint a picture of where the field is heading in the coming years.

systems genetics therefore of- fers a different perspective into human disease processes compared to reduc- tionist approaches such as genome- wide association studies.aldons j. lusis systems genetics data provide a resource that experimental sci- entists particularly those studying com- mon diseases can use to help guide their research identify new research targets or formulate new hypotheses.

systems genetics an- alyses are generally limited to the formula- tion of hypotheses and while the data can be a valuable resource for future studies most strong papers include some level of experimental validation.michael boutros a strong systems genetics paper should include genome- scale analysis preferably looking at many phenotypes and under many dif- ferent conditions or environments.

in general systems genetics should be useful in addressing a number of complex and poorly under- stood interactions such as gene-by- gene gene-by-environment and gene- by-sex interactions.charles r. farber i believe the power of systems genetics is in understanding how genetic variation impacts cellularnetworks and how network perturbations lead to disease.

i disagree with thetable 1. suggested readingtitlereferencenotescontinued on next pagetable 1. continuedtitlereferencenotescontinued on next pagetable 1. continuedtitlereferencenotesthe authors of this article were each asked to nominate three papers for this list with at most one being their own work.notion that the need of experimental or- ganisms will be supplanted by large hu- man studies.systems genetics approaches will increasingly be applied to large human datasets and integrated with data from electronic medical records.charles r. farber systems genetics has been enabled by the ability to perform omic profiling in large populations.

the state of systems genetics in 2017nitin s. baligajohan l.m.

their responses ordered by the journal but otherwise unedited make it clear that deci- phering genotype to phenotype relationships is a central challenge of systems genetics and will require un- derstanding how networks and higher-order properties of biological systems underlie complex traits.

in addi- tion our experts illuminate the applications and relevance of systems genetics to human disease the gut microbiome development of tools that connect the global research community sustainability drug discov- ery patient-specific disease and network models and personalized treatments.

finally a table of suggested reading provides a sample of influential work in the field.cell systems why should researchers outside of the field pay attention to systems genetics nigel crawford the vast majority of human diseases are not single-gene in nature but have a complex form of inheri- tance.

systems genetics box 1 offers an alternative approach and in- volves taking into account the undisputedcomplexity of the disease process being studied.

systems ge- netics data can be compared to results from a screen of cells with an shrna li- brary or a chemical compound library except that the perturbations are natural genetic and environmental variations.michael boutros systems genetics to date relied in many cases on simple or- ganisms that can be easily studied.

but there is of course also much knowledge in fields beyond genetic model organisms such as clinical genetics where phenotyp- ing is very important and more genome- and phenome-scale data becomes avail- able.

i would also expect that in the future we will see more collaborations between experimental scientists data scientists and clinicians.nitin s. baliga solutions to a number of complex problems including in health- care renewable energy and environ- mental sustainability hinges on our ability to understand how genetic informationcell systems 4 january 25 2017 a 2017 published by elsevier inc. 7manifests in complex phenotypes--be it in how nutrients are cycled by microbial interactions in the ocean how differentiation and developmental pro- grams unfold to generate the body plan of a metazoan how pathogens such as mycobacterium tuberculosis hide away from our immune system or how nutrient starvation causes algae to arrest growth and accumulate lipids.while a similar generalizable systems genetics approach will be necessary to study spatiotemporal dynamics of cellular and molecular interactions among different components of each of these sys- tems the specific technologies computa- tional methodologies and experimental testing frameworks will be vastly different and require a large multi-disciplinary team effort.

