straight with a 1.25-mm-diameter bulbous tip Braintree Scientificml syringe sterile Covidien MonojectAdditional reagents and equipment for anesthesia optional see UNIT 1.4 Donovan  Brown 2001Prepare animalsAcclimate 6- to 8-week-old sex-matched mice to the animal facility environment for at least 1 week prior to infection.Animals should be acclimated under standard lighting and temperature conditions in individually HEPA-filtered cages with sterile bedding and nesting and free access to food and water provided ad libitum.Ear tag or tattoo the mice for identification.The day prior to infection weigh the mice and record their initial weight.Fast mice giving only water for 8-12 hr before infection.Fasting is performed to avoid delivery of the inoculum into a full stomach which could lead to aspiration of the inoculum into the lung and to decrease variability between animals.Perform gavageJust before infection fit an animal feeding needle on a 1-ml syringe.Gently agitate bacterial inoculum in the tube to mix evenly then fill the syringe with0.2 ml inoculum.

In contrast various ge- netically modified mice display severe diar- rhea and colon inflammation and ultimately succumb to infection for a list of susceptible mice see Table 1 in Koroleva et al.

QC 2017 by John Wiley  Sons Inc.Keywords Citrobacter rodentium intestinal infection colitis mouse modelUNIT 19.15INTRODUCTIONCitrobacter rodentium is a Gram-negative enteric bacterium whose natural host is mice where infection causes transmissible colonic hyperplasia and is responsible for high mortality in sucklings Barthold Coleman Jacoby Livestone  Jonas 1978 Schauer  Falkow 1993 Schauer et al.

C. rodentium infection of mice has become an excellent tool for the analysis of host responses to enteric bacteria and further understanding of potential mechanisms of IBD pathogenesis an essential step in developing novel preventative and therapeutic treatment strategies Borenshtein et al.

Most infection studies involve in- tragastric inoculation of mice by oral gavage with laboratory-cultured bacteria which results in a highly reproducible infection cycle Borenshtein et al.

In immunocompromised mice the bacteria can disseminate systemically and can be detected in peripheral organs such as the spleen and liver Collins et al.

Elucidating the pathogenesis of EPEC and EHEC in vivo has long been hampered by the fact that mice are naturally resistant to infection with these bacteria Mundy et al.

As a re- sult C. rodentium infection of mice has be- come the gold-standard model for investigat- ing mechanisms involved in pathogenesis of AE bacteria Borenshtein et al.

Trans- missible murine crypt hyperplasia typically lasts 2-3 weeks in C57BL6 mice that are resis- tant to C. rodentium and follows a biphasic re- sponse with progressive and regressive phases Collins et al.

In recent years the use of C. rodentium infection has been at the heart of the discovery and functional characterization of new immune cell subsets in mice such as group 3 innate lymphoid cells ILC3 Th17 and Th22 lymphocytes in- nate gd T cells and IgA plasma cells Basu et al.

