gut microbiota have also been suggested to play a role in host weight gain during pregnancy via increased absorption of glu- cose and fatty acids increased fasting-induced adipocyte factor secretion induc- tion of catabolic pathways and stimulation of the immune system 8 10.since the microbial communities are greatly affected by the host diet and ini- tial weight the microbiota of pregnant women differ accordingly 10. over- weight pregnant women exhibit significantly higher levels of gut bacteroides and staphylococcus than pregnant women of normal weight 10. while most studies show significant alterations in gut microbiota during pregnancy digiulio et al.did not detect any changes in gut or vaginal microbiota composition includ- ing richness indexes during gestation.antibiotics administered during pregnancy were shown to affect the micro- biome composition and diversity as well as to promote weight gain in rodents 12. it is especially intriguing to understand the consequences of the maternal microbiome composition during pregnancy on the offspring in terms of weight gain immunity and infant health 13. recently the maternal microbiota was shown to shape the offspring's immune system in terms of immune gene expres- sion and numbers of innate cells 14 and it was also hypothesized that micro- bial exposure during pregnancy may be of great importance for preventing al- lergic disease in the offspring 15.pregnancy leads to changes in the vaginal microbiotathe vaginal microbiome undergoes significant changes during pregnancy as well 7 including a significant decrease in overall diversity increased stability and increased abundance of lactobacillus species 16. lactobacillus species are lactic acid-producing bacteria that normally dominate the vaginal microbiota.

this is in contrast to disease states such as obesityinflammatory bowel disease ibd diabetes and the metabolic syndrome in which an unhealthy shift in microbiota composition termed dysbiosis may occur 5.factors affecting the microbiota during pregnancyone group of initial changes that occur during pregnancy is hormonal changes.

therefore the metabolic changes occurring during pregnancy are expected to influence the microbiota composition.pregnancy leads to changes in the gut microbiotaseveral alterations in the gut microbiota have been associated with pregnancy progression.

nonetheless direct effects of progesterone and estrogen on the microbiota and the effects of the microbiota on these hor- mones have not yet been proven 6.additionally significant immune changes occur during pregnancy and these are likely to affect the microbiota.

fur- ther comparisons between the microbial signatures of pregnancy and disease states such as the metabolic syndrome may highlight common as well as unique pathways and microbial involvement in each condition.when starting to dissect the roles of the gut microbiota during pregnancy the third-trimester microbiota was shown to cause increased weight gain insu- lin resistance and a greater inflammatory response compared to the first-tri- mester microbiota when transferred to germ-free mice 8. these findings dem- onstrate that the microbial components actively contribute to changes in host immunology as well as metabolism.

their increase during pregnancy correlates with a decrease in the vaginal ph creating a barrier against pathogenic bacteria and viral infections and an in- crease in vaginal secretions 17 18. the major changes in the vaginal micro- bial compositions occur in early pregnancy while the communities at the later stages of pregnancy resemble those of the nonpregnant state 16. in pregnancy there is often a dominant lactobacillus species although the specific species var- ies according to the ethnic group 19 20. as expected during the postpartum period the vaginal microbiome gradually reverts to baseline characteristics in- cluding a decrease in lactobacillus species abundance an increase in a diversity and enrichment of bacteria associated with vaginosis such as actinobacteria 19.pregnancy leads to changes in the oral microbiotathe main change occurring in the oral microbiota during pregnancy is an in- crease in the microbial load.

the possibility of early microbial colonization of the fetus suggests that from the very beginning of development there may be reciprocal interactions between the developing host and microbiota and that maternal microbial components may be trans- ferred very early in development.future research will likely reveal the interactions and pathways linking the various physiological changes to the microbial changes thereby explaining the significance of each change observed.

it is therefore not surprising that there are also significant changes in the micro- biome during pregnancy when dramatic weight gain and metabolic and immunological changes occur.

in this review we summarize the known changes in microbial composition throughout pregnancy at a variety of body sites including the gut vagina oral cavity and placenta and we describe several studies that have linked pregnancy complications with microbial changes.

pregnancy a complex physiological process is associated with simulta- neous hormonal changes weight gain and immune system modulations which must all be synchronized to preserve the health of both the mother and the off- spring 1. in this review we describe the pronounced microbial changes that occur in the pregnant female.

moreover we suggest that the microbial changes during pregnancy are highly correlated with other physiological changes including those in hor- mones immunity and metabolism.

the microbial components are crucial players in this immune modulation however they themselves are also affected by immune changes.finally metabolic changes occur during pregnancy including changes in en- ergy homeostasis fat storage and hormonal regulation.

preg- nancy is a natural process of growth and development in which many physio- logical changes occur including changes in body composition weight gain hor- monal levels inflammation and metabolic states.

in many ways the met- abolic changes associated with pregnancy are similar to those that occur in the metabolic syndrome including weight gain elevated fasting blood glucose lev- els insulin resistance glucose intolerance low-grade inflammation and chang- es in metabolic hormone levels 7. while the microbiota plays active roles in these metabolic processes it is also highly affected by host metabolism as seen by dysbiosis in obesity the metabolic syndrome and diabetes.

in general pregnancy is characterized by an increase in the bacterial load and profound alterations in the composition of the gut microbiota 7. mostof the changes relative to nonpregnant women are seen in late pregnancy.

