inflammatory responses to the amyloid deposits in the brain may be influenced by the microbiota and this influence may be key to producing cerebral dysfunction .neural routes by which microbial amyloid may influence the cns.

although we refer to neuroinflamma- tion in the context of this review we recognize that other forms of inflammation may also be influenced by microbial amyloids.in addition to amyloid cross-seeding between bacterial and human amyloidogenic proteins we must also consider alternative possible mechanisms by which microbial amyloids and other products of the microbiota could influence neurodegenerative disorders.the microbiota modulates immunological processes in the cns gut bacteria have been shown to influence microglia in the brain  and it has been sug- gested that the microbiota in parkinson disease is linked to a higher potential for inflammation .

also changes in the immune and gastrointestinal systems with age may enhance the burden of microbial amyloids and alter their influence on immune homeostasis.what are the principal sources of microbial amyloid in humansthe production of bacterial amyloid proteins by organisms known to be found in the gut are well studied  -.

the influence of the microbiota on the balance of oxidative andor reductive processes has only recently begun to be investigated .metabolites produced by the microbiome may be pathogenic or salutogenic health sustainingsampson et al.

furthermore microglial cell expression of cd14 is involved in ass clearance  and innate immune system activation by bacterial amyloid may alter ass homeostasis in the brain.it has been suggested that exposure to bacterial amyloid proteins in the gut may cause prim- ing of the immune system thereby enhancing immune response to endogenous production of neuronal amyloids in the brain .

microbial proteins or metabolites may influence neurodegeneration through the promotion of amyloid formation by human proteins or by enhancing inflamma-tory responses to endogenous neuronal amyloids.

microbial amyloid may also increase production of neuronal amyloids such as alpha-synuclein though the neural connections of the enteroendocrine cells as well as the other epithelial cells.

neuronal amyloid accumulation may be enhanced by exposure to microbial amyloid through increased expression and through cross-seeding leading to misfolding of neuronal proteins in the brain in a manner analogous to kuru and bovine spongiform encephalopathy.

it has been previously shown that microbial amyloids including curli may induce immune responses in the intestinal mucosa   and regulate the intestinal epithelial barrier influ- encing bacterial translocation .

furthermore exposure to microbial amyloids in the gut may enhance cerebral nucleation of ass aggregates .

oral bacteria may also make amyloid proteins including the common oral symbiont streptococcus mutans  and oral bacteria have been linked to stroke and cerebral microbleeds  .in order to enhance understanding of the influence of microbial amyloids on the body we propose a new term mapranosis.

microbial amyloid may effect changes in protein folding and neuroinflammation in the cns through the autonomic nervous system particularly the vagus nerve the trigeminal nerve in the mouth and nasopharynx and the gut including mouth esophagus stomach and intestines as well as via the olfactory receptors in the roof of the nose.

further work in this area is clearly needed because microbial metabolites such as scfas may pass the blood-brain barrier and have been shown to have important influences on systemic immunity  .

however the metaproteomic study of endogenous microbial amy- loids present in the body has not been completed and we know relatively little about microbial amyloid assembly in the body.

as this field advances it has become necessary to go beyond the cataloging of bacterial populations as suggested by sharon et al.

