moreover the combination of lithium plus desipramine increased fosbfosb-positive cell den- sity when compared to mice that received lithium alone p  0.05.the combination of lithium plus desipramine did not increasefosbfosb-positive cell density in the ca1 medial prefrontal cortex nucleus accumbens amygdala or the hypothalamusin the ca1 medial prefrontal cortex nucleus accumbens nac amygdala and hypothalamus fosbfosb-positive cell density was not differentially affected by lithium plus desipramine when compared to the effects of both lithium alone and desipramine alone .

adult hippocampal neu-rogenesis ahn is required for the behavioural effects of some antidepressants ahn is modulated by fosb whereby fosb-null mice exhibit decreased ahn as well as depression-like behaviour since we previously observed that lithium augmentation of desipramine but neither drug alone increased cell proliferation in the dg of these mice it is tempting to speculate that some of the effects observed on fosbfosb-positive cell density in the dg may be related to increased ahn.increases in fosbfosb-positive cell density were also observed in the ca3 of the dorsal hippocampus following treat- ment with lithium in combination with desipramine.

other studies have reported that chronic fluoxetine treatment increased fosbfosb-positive cell density in the amygdala of c57bl6j mice while sertraline desipramine and vns increased fosb-positive cell density in the bla but not cea of rats in the present study none ofthe drug treatments altered fosbfosb-positive cell density in the medial prefrontal cortex.

2. there was a trend for lithium plus desipramine but neither drug alone to increase fosbfosb-positive cell density in the dorsal but not ventral dentate gyrus of the hippocampus a fosbfosb-positive cell density in the dentate gyrus dg of the hippocampus.

b fosbfosb-positive cell density in the inferior blade of the dg.fosbfosb-positive cell density in the superior blade of the dg.

none of the drug treat- ments affected fosbfosb-positive cell density the ventral dg a-d.the combination of lithium and desipramine significantly increased fosbfosb positive cell density in the proximal but not distal ca3 of the dorsal hippocampusthe effects of lithium and desipramine on neuronal activation in the ca3 region of the dorsal hippocampus are shown in in the proximal region of the dorsal ca3 and b two-way anova revealed a significant main effect for desipramine alone f131  6.625 p  0.016. however post-hoc group-wise com- parisons revealed that only the mice that had received lithium plus desipramine exhibited an increased number of fosbfosb- positive cells when compared to control mice p  0.01. on the other hand there were no significant differences between groups in the distal ca3 region of the dorsal hippocampus.

there were no differences between treatment groups in the ca3 region of the ventral hippocampus c.lithium in combination with desipramine increasedfosbfosb-positive cell density in the dorsal raphe nucleusthe effects of desipramine and lithium-induced neuronal acti- vation in the dorsal raphe nucleus are shown in two-way anova revealed effects for lithium alone f131  9.032 p  0.01 and desipramine alone f131  20.275 p  0.001. specifically lithium alone p  0.01 desipramine alone p  0.001 and the combination of lithium plus desipramine p  0.001 all increasedfosbfosb-positive cell density.

3. the combination of lithium and desipramine significantly increasedfosbfosb-positive cell density in the proximal but not distal ca3 of the dorsal hip- pocampus a fosbfosb-positive cell density in the distal and proximal ca3 of the dorsal hippocampus.

significantly different from con- trol control-saline p  0.01 fisher's lsd posthoc test n  8.the areas examined the dorsal hippocampus and the dorsal raphe nucleus drn were the only regions whereby a combination of lithium plus desipramine increased fosbfosb-positive cell den- sity when compared to all other groups thus suggesting that these brain areas likely play a role in the antidepressant-like behavioural effects of lithium augmentation of desipramine.in the hippocampus lithium augmentation of desipramine sig- nificantly increased fosbfosb-positive cell density in the ca3 of the dorsal hippocampus with no changes observed in the ca1 or ventral hippocampus.

4. lithium alone desipramine alone and lithium in combination with desipramine all increased fosbfosb-positive cell density in the dorsal raphe nucleus afosbfosb-positive cell density in the dorsal raphe nucleus drn.

others have reported that chronic treatment with the antidepressant fluoxetine increased fosb-positive cell density in the dg and ca3 regions of the dorsal hippocampus of c57bl6j mice in contrast we did not observe an effect of desipramine alone on fosbfosb-positive cell density in either the ca3 or the dg but we were using a mouse strain in which desipramine alone was insufficient to induce antidepressant-like behaviour.

on the other hand a combination of lithium with desipramine which induced antidepressant-like behaviour increased fosbfosb-positive cell density in the dorsal ca3 while also showing a trend towards increasing fosbfosb-positive cell density in the dorsal dg.

for all comparisons differ- ences were considered statistically significant at p  0.05. data is presented as mean  sem.resultsthere was a trend for lithium plus desipramine but neither drug alone to increase fosbfosb-positive cell density in the dorsal but not ventral dentate gyrus of the hippocampusthe effects of desipramine and lithium-induced neuronal acti- vation in the dorsal and ventral dentate gyrus dg are shown in in the dorsal dg and d two-way anova revealed a trend towards a significant main effect for lithium f131  2.998 p  0.09. although it appears that the combination of lithium plus desipramine increased the number of fosbfosb-positive cellsfig.

similarly with the exception of the pvn of the hypothalamus neither lithium alone nor desipramine alone alteredfosbfosb-positive cell density in any of these brain regions.

in the pvn of the hypothalamus posthoc analysis revealed that lithium alone increased fosbfosb-positive cell density when compared with the control group p  0.05 while the combination of lithium and desipramine had no effect.discussionthe aim of this study was to identify brain areas involved in the antidepressant effects of lithium augmentation of the antide- pressant desipramine in a mouse model of treatment-resistant depression.

