these findings were sup- ported by the studies of permafrost soils of the arctic and antarctic and by the studies of deep sedimentary rocks which were not exposed to cryogenic effects as well as by the study of bur- ied soils beneath barrows   .from this perspective the preservation of microbial dna in soils formed hundreds of years ago and stored in soil museums for prolonged periods of time is especially interesting.

thus this study had two major objectives first to analyze the microbial communities of archived samples of contrasting soil types chernozems and sod-podzolic soils and second to compare the data obtained with the microbiome analy- sis of modern soils formed under similar climatic conditions.materials and methodssoil samplessamples of archived sod-podzolic asp and chernozem ach soils were collected from the top horizon 0-25 cm of soil cores of the central museum of soil science by v.v.

pershina16 nikolay s. romaschenko1 nikolai a. provorov1 evgeny e. andronov1261 laboratory of microbiological monitoring and bioremediation of soils all-russia research institute for agricultural microbiology saint-petersburg russia 2 laboratory of biology and biochemistry of soils v.v.

10115-54this study is a comparative analysis of samples of archived stored for over 70-90 years and modern soils of two different genetic types-chernozem and sod-podzolic soils.

the comparative analysis of archived soils and their modern counterparts showed a significant increase in the expression of drug resistance genes in arable soils over time which may be associated with the widespread adoption of antibiotics since 1940 .

currently the museum's collection includes over 1600 soil monoliths-vertical sections of different soils of undisturbed structure and thus provides a rare and unique opportunity to analyze microbial communities of soils formed over a hundred years ago under different environmental conditions as well as to investigate the evolutionary dynamics of soil microbiomes within the global soil-forming process.to carry out such a research it is crucial to have archived samples with recorded sampling sites to sample modern day controls.

to compare the diversity of archived soils with the modern analogs all the samples of each type archived sod-podzolic archived chernozems modern sod-podzolic and chernozems were pooled and normalized to the lowest number of sequences in dataset of each soil type to estimate the inte- gral differences in their biodiversity .according to the analysis of biodiversity indices the phylogenetic diversity of both types of archived soils was significantly lower than of the modern ones.

the principal coordinates analysis pcoa analysis of the weighted unifrac distance matrices showed that samples of archived soils generally formed clear separated clusters whereas the distance between clusters of modern sod-podzolic sp and chernozem ch soils was relatively smaller .

this is also consistent with the lower values of conserved biodiversity in the asp soils in comparison with ach and modern soils .

the adonis model showed that sample type and sample age explained the same por- tion of variation in the data.thus the analysis of biodiversity revealed the substantial loss of archaeal and bacterialdiversity in both types of archived soil samples with most dramatic changes in asp soils.taxonomic analysis of microbiomes of archived and modern soilsmost of soil samples were dominated by 8 bacterial and one archaeal phyla they were actino- bacteria 27.4 firmicutes 23.2 proteobacteria 17.4 verrucomicrobia 9.1 acido-bacteria 6.6 bacteroidetes 3.8 chloroflexi 2.4 gemmatimonadetes 1.2 and crenarchaeota 6.5. rare phylotypes less than 1 in amount included planctomycetes 0.6 ad3 0.1 nitrospirae 0.1 ws3 0.1 and euryarchaeota 0.2.at the phylum level strong differences were found between microbial communities of archived soils and modern soils as well as the abundance of some phylotypes differed markedly between ach and asp microbiomes .

archived soils were characterized by relative increasing in amount of firmicutes especially asp soils and substantial decreasing in number of proteobacteria verrucomicrobia acidobacteria bacteroidetes .

both ch and sp soils were dominated by alphaproteobacteria and betaproteobacteria while in ach soil the proportion of alphaproteo- bacteria decreases to 2.73 in comparison with 10.19 and 17.31 in ch and sp respec- tively whereas in asp soil proteobacteria were represented mainly by gammaproteobacteria 9.98 in comparison with 2.46 and 1.61 in sp and ch respectively.represents the differences in taxonomic composition of archived sod-podzolic and chernozem soils.

microbiomes of archived chernozems included mainly actinobacteria thermophilic bacteriataxa summary of microbiomes of soils investigated at the phylum level including classes ofproteobacteria.heatmap of fractions of microbial orders in archived sod-podzolic and chernozem soils.

soils with a high content of organic matter due to the long-term application of manure were characterized by higher microbial abundance than soils with long-term use of mineral fertilizers.

research articlethe preservation of microbial dna in archived soils of various genetic typesekaterina a. ivanova12 ilia o. korvigo134 boris f. aparin5 evgenii l. chirak1 elizavetav.

