the methanobacteriaceae family belonging to the phylum euryarchaeota of the archaea domain was detected in 83 3441 of the subjects and desulfovibrio the most representative sulfate-reducing genus in 76 3141 of the subjects.

some genera including pathogens were also detected treponema in 5 individuals campylobacteraceae with reads assigned to the genera arcobacter and campylobacter in 15 subjects and helicobacter in 2 subjects.

the microbiota of the chilean subjects significantly differed from that of papua new guinea p 0.001 and the matses ethnic group p 0.001 and did not differ from the subjects of the other countries being closer to the populations of argentina and some sub-populations from the united states.

based on this consideration it has been hypothesized that dietary supplementation with these archaebiotics could prevent cardiovascular diseases in at-risk subjects  .desulfovibrio the most representative sulfate-reducing genus was detected in 76 3141 of the subjects.

our results show that the relative abundanceof this genus in the chilean population was clearly lower than that described in the matses and hadza hunter-gatherer populations consuming high amount of dietary fiber especially from tubers  .furthermore we detected 15 37.5 subjects colonized with enteric pathogens belonging to the family campylobacteraceae arcobacter and campylobacter and 2 subjects with helicobacter.

this probably also reflects the heterogeneity of these subjects in terms of genetic background and the existence of other factors contributing to the microbiota composition.an important difference in the chilean subjects compared to populations from other countries was the higher abundance of phylum verrucomicrobia.

pilar francino public health fisabio spainreviewed bynaomi l. ward university of wyoming united statesboyang ji chalmers university of technologysweden ana e. escalantenational autonomous university ofmexico mexicocorrespondence martin gotteland paola navarrete juan a. ugalde  these authors have contributedequally to this work.specialty section this article was submitted to microbial symbiosesa section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 10 january 2017accepted 16 june 2017published 30 june 2017citation fujio-vejar s vasquez y morales p magne f vera-wolf p ugalde ja navarrete p and gotteland m 2017 the gut microbiota of healthy chilean subjects reveals a high abundance of the phylum verrucomicrobia.front.

determining the gut microbiota composition of healthy subjects is therefore necessary to establish a baseline allowing the detection of microbiota alterations in pathologic conditions.

accordingly the aim of this study was to characterize the gut microbiota of healthy chilean subjects using 16s rrna gene sequencing.

109180 - 13148 sequencessample were obtained with an a-diversity of 3.86 - 0.37. the dominant phyla were firmicutes 43.6 - 9.2 and bacteroidetes 41.6 - 13.1 followedby verrucomicrobia 8.5 - 10.4 proteobacteria 2.8 - 4.8 actinobacteria1.8 - 3.9 and euryarchaeota 1.4 - 2.7. the core microbiota representing the genera present in all the subjects included bacteroides prevotella parabacteroides phylum bacteroidetes phascolarctobacterium faecalibacterium ruminococcus lachnospira oscillospira blautia dorea roseburia coprococcus clostridium streptococcus phylum firmicutes akkermansia phylum verrucomicrobia and collinsella phylum actinobacteria.

the family methanobacteriaceae was reported in 83 of the subjects and desulfovibrio the most representative sulfate-reducing genus in 76. the microbiota of the chilean individuals significantly differed from those of papua new guinea and the matses ethnic group and was closer to that of the argentinians and sub-populations from the united states.

interestingly the microbiota of the chilean subjects stands out for its richness in verrucomicrobia the mucus-degrading bacterium akkermansia muciniphila is the only identified member of this phylum.

determining the composition of the gut microbiota of healthy subjects is therefore necessary to establish a baseline that can help us to understand the association between altered gut states and diseases.various factors are known to affect the taxonomic composition of the gut microbiota making it difficult to define a shared core microbiota common to all individuals in a population.

in chile where the incidence of chronic metabolic diseases associated with gut dysbiosis is increasing there is no available data about the microbiota composition of healthy or diseased subjects.

for these reasons this study describes the first characterization of the gut microbiota of healthy chilean subjects using 16s rrna gene sequencing.materials and methodssubject enrollment criteriathe study protocol was approved by the ethics committee for research in humans of the institute of nutrition and food technology inta university of chile in compliance with the helsinki declaration.

