journal of inflammation researchopen access to scientific and medical researchopen access full text articlereview the microbiota in inflammatory bowel disease current and therapeutic insightsthis article was published in the following dove press journaljournal of inflammation research10 june 2017number of times this article has been viewederin r lane1 timothy l zisman2 david l suskind11division of gastroenterology and hepatology seattle children's hospital 2division of gastroenterology university of washington seattle wa usaabstract inflammatory bowel disease is a heterogeneous group of chronic disorders that result from the interaction of the intestinal immune system with the gut microbiome.

additionally this manuscript will summarize the early but promising literature on the role of the gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease with implications for utilizing this data for diagnostic or therapeutic application in the clinical management of patients with these diseases.keywords crohn's disease ulcerative colitis microbiome fecal microbiota transplantationenteral nutrition specific carbohydrate dietintroductioninflammatory bowel disease ibd represents a heterogeneous group of chronic immune-mediated inflammatory diseases affecting the gastrointestinal tract.

this review will characterize the factors involved in the development of the intestinal microbiome and will describe the typical alterations in the microbiota that are char- acteristic of inflammatory bowel disease.

a clinical review of recent findings in the epidemi- ology of inflammatory bowel disease.clinepidemiol.

20135237-247.kostic ad xavier rj gevers d. the microbiome in inflammatory bowel disease current status and the future ahead.

201414661489-1499.halme l paavola-sakki p turunen u lappalainen m farkkila m kontula k. family and twin studies in inflammatory bowel disease.

disease phenotype and genotype are associated with shifts in intestinal-associated micro- biota in inflammatory bowel diseases.

inflamm bowel dis.

dysfunction of the intestinal microbiome in inflammatory bowel disease and treatment.

2012139r79.li j butcher j mack d stintzi a. functional impacts of the intesti- nal microbiome in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease.

inflamm bowel dis.

molecular-phylogenetic characterization of microbial community imbalances in human inflammatory bowel diseases.

reduction in diversity of the colonic mucosa associated bacterial microflora in patients with active inflammatory bowel disease.

host-microbe interactions have shaped the genetic architecture of inflammatory bowel disease.

the gut microbiota and inflammatory bowel diseases.

