To evaluate whether the gut bacteria participate in antifungal activity and to determine their role in host protection the interactions between gut bacteria and M. anisopliae and the diversity of gut microbiota in cockroaches were studied.RESULTS An oral feeding test showed that the mortality of conventional cockroaches was significantly lower than that of germ-free cockroaches both gut homogenates and aqueous fecal extracts showed antifungal activity but the samples from germ-free cockroaches did not.

Sobs represents observed number of species.Bacteroidetes in the foregut midgut and hindgut was 13.97 7.33 and 50.4 respectively.Detected OTUs were distributed among 212 different bacterial genera and those of the foregut midgut and hindgut were com- posed of 186 173 and 137 different bacterial genera respectively Fig.

The supernatant was collected and stored at -80 C in sterile tubes for further use.24Susceptibility of conventional and germ-free cockroaches to M. anisopliae applied through oral feeding Conventional and germ-free cockroaches were each divided into five groups of 20 cockroaches and the groups were treated with 1 x 105 1 x 106 1 x 107 1 x 108 and 1 x 109 cfu ml-1 of M. aniso- pliae conidial suspension respectively.

05 between groups were considered statistically significant.RESULTS3.1 Susceptibility of conventional and germ-free cockroaches to M. anisopliae applied through oral feeding The mortality of the conventional cockroaches was lower than that of the germ-free cockroaches.

The time to death of con- ventional cockroaches was extended with a mortality rate of 16.67 - 0.79.Anti-entomopathogenic fungi assay of gut homogenates and aqueous fecal extractsGut homogenates and aqueous fecal extracts of conventional cockroaches inhibited M. anisopliae whereas those of germ-free80706050Conventional cockroaches 40Germ-free cockroaches3020100110100100010000Concentration of conidia x 105 cfu mL-1Figure 1.

The composition of the microbiota of the hindgut was vastly different from those of the foregut and midgut higher diversity and abundance of Bacteroides and Pseudomonas were found in the hindgut.CONCLUSION The gut microbiota of German cockroaches may play a critical role in protecting cockroaches from fungal invasion and colonization.

1 positive control aqueous fecal extracts from conventional cockroaches 2 aqueous fecal extracts from germ-free cockroaches 3 foregut homogenate 4 midgut homogenate 5 hindgut homogenate 6 negative control sterile water.Bioinformatic analysisAfter pyrosequencing 505 073 raw sequences and 3133 OTUs were obtained from the nine samples.

The experiments for each of the bacterial isolates were performed in triplicate and confirmed by testing sterile distilled water as a negative control.31Molecular analysisTwenty-two bacterial strains with antifungal activity or siderophore-producing ability were revived on PDA medium.The bacterial genomic DNA was prepared based on the Ausubel method.32 For amplification of 16S rDNA genes uni- versal primers 27F-AGAGTTTGATCCTGGCTCAG and 1492R-TACG GCTACCTTGTTACGACTT33 were used BGI Sequencing Technology Co. Ltd Beijing China was commissioned to carry out synthesis of primers and sequencing of polymerase chain reaction PCR prod- ucts.

E-mail  Fan Zhang and Xiao X Sun contributed equally to this study.Key Laboratory of Animal Resistance Biology of Shandong Province College of Life Science Shandong Normal University Jinan People's Republic of ChinaFood and Fermentation Engineering Key Lab of Shandong Province JinanPeople's Republic of ChinaShandong Center for Control and Prevention Jinan People's Republic of ChinaPest Manag Sci 2018 74 438 - 447c 2017 Society of Chemical Industryassist the host in synthesizing vitamins utilizing carbohydrates and fats and participating in the nitrogen cycle but also play important roles in protecting the host insect from the invasion of entomopathogens and in boosting the immune system.17 -20 In this paper the susceptibilities of conventional and germ-free cockroaches to M. anisopliae were compared and a preliminary study was carried out of the interactions between gut microbiota and entomopathogenic fungi.MATERIALS AND METHODSInsectsGerman cockroaches were supplied by the Key Laboratory of Animal Resistance Biology of Shandong Province and maintained in a growth chamber 27 - 1 C 60 - 5 relative humidity RHand fed with rat pellets.

Inoculated cockroaches were sterilized with 0.1 mercuric chloride on surface of cockroaches for 30 s and rinsed three times with sterile water to wash away conidia that could have adhered to the surface in the process.

