bacterial composition and diversity were characterized by illumina sequencing of the 16s rrna gene and associations were examined using kendall's tau-b correlation coefficient in conjunction with benjamini and hochberg's false discovery rate procedure.resultswe found no significant associations between microbial markers of gut composition and diversity and scores on psychiatric measures of anxiety depression eating-related thoughts and behaviors stress or personality in a large cohort of healthy adult females.p30dk03498 awarded to dr. carroll.

the regression of pc1 and pc2 against each of the psychiatric measures and other participant variables did not indicate any significant linear relationships after fdr correction.discussionour results provide evidence for a lack of association in physically and psychologically healthy adult females between microbial markers of gut composition and diversity and a collection of psychiatric measures including anxiety depression eating-related thoughts and behaviors stress and personality.

this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the  which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.data availability statement all data files are available from the mg-rast database accession number mgp20265.funding this study was funded by the foundation of hope the unc center of excellence for eating disorders board of visitors fund and tj's fund for eating disorders research academy for eating disorders bulik principal investigator and partially supported by a k01 dk 092330 an r01 mh 105684 and a cgibd pilot feasibility grant abstractobjectivethis study examined associations between the composition and diversity of the intestinal microbiota and measures of depression anxiety eating disorder psychopathology stress and personality in a group of healthy adult females.methodsfemale participants n  91 ages 19-50 years with bmi 18.5-25 kgm2 were recruited from central north carolina between july 2014 and march 2015. participants provided a single fecal sample and completed an online psychiatric questionnaire that included five measures i beck anxiety inventory ii beck depression inventory-ii iii eating disor- der examination-questionnaire iv perceived stress scale and v mini international per- sonality item pool.

plots are based on the first three principal coordinates which explain 11.5 pc1 5.16 pc2 and 3.98 pc3 of the variance in microbial composition and do not cluster by quartile-- supporting a lack of association between microbial markers and these psychiatric measures in healthy individuals.doi10.1371journal.pone.0170208.g002that there is a striking lack of correlation between microbial community composition and the measurements we have gathered from this human cohort.to further visualize the associations in our data set we generated principal coordinate plots using unweighted unifrac distances and colored these plots by quartiles of the main psychiat- ric measures of interest bai bdi ede-q total pss .

studies involving gf mouse models or clinical populations pres- ent extreme cases of psychopathology which may not reflect microbial mechanisms in a healthy human population.this study was the first specifically to examine associations between composition and diversity of the intestinal microbiota and psychiatric measures in healthy females and our results do not reveal associations between the intestinal microbiota and low levels of symp- tomatology in a healthy population.

composition and diversity of the intestinal micro- biota may also be associated with temperament in young children but how such links may evolve during the development of adult personality is unclear .prebiotic and probiotic supplementation has emerged in human clinical studies as potential means for altering mood but connecting post-intervention changes in mood to differences in microbial composition or diversity is lacking.

research articlethe gut-brain axis in healthy females lack of significant association between microbial composition and diversity with psychiatric measuressusan c. kleiman1 emily c. bulik-sullivan2 elaine m. glenny1 stephanie c. zerwas3 eun young huh3 matthew c. b. tsilimigras4 anthony a. fodor4 cynthia m. bulik135 ianm.

2017 the gut-brain axis in healthy females lack of significant association between microbial composition and diversity with psychiatric measures.

mixed evidence has emerged from investigations comparing the intestinal microbiotas of individuals with major depressive disor- der to healthy controls with one study failing to find significant between-group differences in microbial diversity or taxonomic composition  while the other found increased diversity and significant taxonomic differences at the phylum family and genus levels .

total scores on the ede-q and its four subscales dietary restraint and eating weight and shape concerns are lower than norms for u.s. college students and young adult females in sweden and australia - which is likely a reflection of the partici- pant recruitment and screening process which eliminated individuals with a lifetime eating disorder history.following sequencing of 16s rrna genes we had 91 samples with complete data after excluding those samples with insufficient depth of sequence reads for our downstream analysis.the total number of 16s rrna sequence reads was 15391194 and the mean number of reads was 169134 per sample range 47492-317380 sequence reads.when examining associations between psychiatric measures and the composition and diversity of the intestinal microbiota there were no associations that met established demographic and clinical characteristics of participants in this study n  91 as compared to clinical and normative values.bmi body mass index bai beck anxiety inventory bdi beck depression inventory-ii ede-q eating disorder examination-questionnaire pss perceived stress scale-10 mini-ipip mini-international personality item pool.aaverage of subcategory values.bthe pss is not used to index diagnostic thresholds.

in patients with acute anorexia nervosa which is frequently comorbid with depression work from our laboratory has shown that microbial diversity was both associated with depression and signifi- cantly lower than in healthy controls .

we exam- ined associations between the composition and diversity of the intestinal microbiota and mea- sures of depression anxiety eating disorder psychopathology stress and personality in a group of healthy adult females.materials and methodsthe study was approved by the biomedical institutional review board at the university of north carolina at chapel hill.

measures of anxiety state-trait anxiety inventory stai beck anxiety inventory bai and hospital anxiety and depression scale-anxiety hads-a.

associations between microbial composition and diversity and a wide range of variables reflecting anthro- pometry lifestyle diet disease and medication were recently examined in two large european cohorts flemish gut flora project n  1106 dutch lifelines-deep n  1135. in addition to the high levels of inter-individual variation reported findings suggest that while many factors may be associated with microbial variation any individual factor would have a very modest effect size  .

r scripts are available at .the diversity of the intestinal microbiota was characterized by the shannon diversity index  .statistical analysisassociations between psychiatric and microbial measures were examined using kendall's tau-b correlation coefficient in conjunction with benjamini and hochberg's false discovery rate fdr procedure to correct for multiple comparisons .

