children born by caesarean section have in their 11 years of age 1.83 times higher prevalence of overweight and obesi- ty 35. metaanalysis of 28 studies has shown that the risk of obesity in offspring born by caesarean section is by 39  higher with no connec- tion to overweight of mother or other perinatal factors 36. likewise metaanalysis of 12 studies demonstrated that the risk of developing diabetes mellitus type i in children born by caesarean sections is by 19  higher even after clearing other factors age of mother breast- feeding birthweight gestational age history of the mother 37.mental disorders and psychiatric conditionsinfants born by caesarean section have 2.5 times higher risk of developing bipolar disorder in their later lives 38. also those born by elective caesarean section have 13  higher risk of devel- oping and revealing affective and non-affective psychosis includ- ing schizophrenia in adulthood 39. metaanalysis of 13 studies has shown 23  higher risk of developing autistic spectrum dis- orders in offspring born by caesarean section 40. other study demonstrated higher risk of developing autistic spectrum disorders only when general anaesthesia is being administered during the surgical procedure 41. at the age of three months children born by caesarean section show slower reactivity to external stimuli while their cognitive functions and attention stay untouched 42. the connection between the composition of intestinal microbi- ome and behaviour disorders mainly autistic spectrum disorders is well known.

older study dem- onstrated 2.5 times higher risk of childhood myeloid leukemia in offspring born by caesarean section with exclusion of those with down syndrome 28. elective caesarean section increases the risk of developing childhood acute myeloid leukemia by 79  the risk increase is related mostly to the precursor b-all 29. recent analysis of registers from 9 different countries proved 23 higher risk of developing acute lymphocytic leukemia in infants born by caesarean section.

in infants older than is 18 months the risk elevated to 40  31 recent study demonstrated that the risk is even 72  higher 32. caesarean delivery increases the risk of nonseminoma testicular cancer more than twice 33. metaanalysis of 3 studies from usa found out there is 67  higher risk of discovering this type of cancer in boys born by caesarean section 34.metabolic disordersthe abnormal intestinal microflora in offspring born by caesar- ean section might be the reason of higher prevalence of certain meta- bolic abnormalities.

this represents the first insult of the lung tissue which is then more susceptible to pathological condition in later life 23. furthermore in children born by caesarean sec- tion the higher risk of atopy and allergic rhinitis has been observed 24. a few studies discovered a connection between food allergy and caesarean delivery especially in children with atopic parents 25 26. the risk of avascular necrosis of the femoral head is 36  higher in children born by caesarean delivery than in those born vaginally even after exclusion of breech delivery 27.oncologic disordersinfants born by caesarean section are in greater risk of several cancer diseases.

the increased antibodies response is also characteristic for those affected by atopic reaction 19.autoimmune disordersthe large danish study performed in 750 000 infants unveiled higher risk of developing asthma allergic laryngitis gastroenteri- tis ulcerative colitis celiac disease and juvenile idiopathic arthritis in infants born by caesarean section 20. the metaanalysis of 23 studies has shown that infants born by elective caesarean section have 20  higher risk of developing bronchial asthma later in their lives 21. this relation stays unchanged even after exclusion of other factors such as smoking of the mother low birthweight and duration of breastfeeding.

arch dis child 2004 89 11 993-997.eggesbo m botten g stigum h nafstad p magnus p. is delivery by cesarean section a risk factor for food allergy j allergy clin immunol 2003 112 2 420-426.bahmanyar s montgomery sm weiss rj ekbom a. maternal smoking during pregnancy other prenatal and perinatal factors and the risk of legg-calve-perthes disease.

at the same time there is growing amount of epidemiologic data showing higher lifetime risk of incidence of several diseases in offspring who do not experience natural labour.

czech republic and slovakia together with hungary ireland and austria have shown the highest incline of the caesarean de- livery rate among developed countries during 1992-2007. the rate increased more than twice during this period 2.11st department of gynaecology and obstetrics faculty of medicine co- menius university and university hospital bratislava slovakia 22nd de- partment of gynaecology and obstetrics faculty of medicine comenius university and university hospital bratislava slovakia and 3department of obstetrics and gynecology brno university hospital and masaryk university medical faculty brno czech republicaddress for correspondence j. zahumensky 2nd department of gyn- aecology and obstetrics faculty of medicine comenius university and university hospital ruzinovska 6 sk-821 06 bratislava slovakia.phone 421.918900860as a result of exponential growth of caesarean delivery rate there is accumulation of epidemiologic data worldwide showing increased risk of severe lifetime complications in offspring born by caesarean section.

it is assumed that vaginal birth is associ- ated with important physiological mechanisms in newborn which positively affect the occurrence of several disorders during the lifetime mainly related to the immune system.attempting to analyze the problemthree pathophysiologic mechanisms are thought to contribute to a greater risk of developing disorders in infants born by cae- sarean section the type of microbiome the newborn is exposed to depending on the mode of delivery the absence of adaptive stress during the caesarean delivery and alterion epigenetic regulation of gene expression.

different intestinal colonization of children born by cae- sarean section prolongs postnatal immaturity of their immune sys- tem causing increased risk of occurrence of immune disorders in their later lives 6. it was demonstrated that infants born by cae- sarean section have their intestined colonized by higher numbers of clostridia and lower numbers of bifidobacteria and bacteroides.

this process affects directly production of antibodies glycolysis regulation and regulation of response to food allergens 13. the perinatal programming is probably the reason for higher risk of metabolic disorders such as obesity and diabetes mellitus in infants born by caesarean section.caesarean section and development of immune systemphysiological stress during the labour influences the composi- tion and function of immune cells in blood plasma.

higher risk is proven to exist for early onset of bronchial asthma which shows up before fifth year of age 22. elective caesarean section often leads to early neonatal respiratory morbidity.

the connection between the mode of delivery and acute myeloid leukemia was not proven 30. elective caesaren section appears to be one of the risk factors for neuro-325bratisl med j 2017 118 6324 - 327blastoma.

on the contrary atopic mother significantly increases the risk of disease in the infant.

administration of corticoids to the mother before elective caesarean section in term decreases the risk of early respiratory morbidity of the foetus and the need of mechanical ventilation in neonate 47. this approach is not yet approved as routine by accredited by gynecological and obstetri- cal societies.

