the repetition of these patch types across space is indicative of a patch mosaic.examining the spatial arrangement of patch types and patch mosaics in turn leads to some of the fundamental questions in landscape ecology such as how many distinct patches can be found in a mosaic and why how large is each patch and why do patch or patch types have sharp or indistinct bound- aries how connected are the distinct patches and to what extent do these quantitative features predict the occurrence of spatial arrangements between and across sites.

in turn the scale of observation informs a variety of parameters--such as patch size patch density patch quality inter-patch distances and stability.

a ''patch mosaic'' encompasses a set of patches or patch types in which no discernable pattern can be detected for any patch with respect to the others or to the underlying environmental stressor.

a patch mosaic is a collection of patch types within a spatial territory where patch types exhibit a definite but seemingly random spatial distribu-tion with respect to each other .

a ''gradient'' describes the spatial pattern in which a patch or patch mosaic varies with respect to some underlying environmental stressor such as ph or temperature for which different species have different optima.

in spatial ecology a ''patch type'' is analogous to a patch but represents a spatially clustered community rather than a population.

it is unclear in general whether most surveys of the microbiota characterize single patch types or whether they pool multiple patch types since the spatial extent of csts is rarely defined.

the answers to these questions would enable the prediction of ecosystem stability and resilience  allowing the field to move beyond qualitative narratives of spatial patterns toward quantitative descriptions of spatial dynamics and predictions about function.by examining patch mosaics across the entire landscape the size orientation and arrangement of patches and patch mo- saics can be defined .

if the grain of observation is too fine a single patch or patch type might be mis- interpreted as representative of the entire landscape.this raises the question of what spatial scales are relevant to the genesis of spatial patterns and processes in the communities of the human body.

to facilitate a discussion of this proposition in this section we review the basic history terms and definitions of landscape ecology while iden- tifying the types of spatial patterns that might be observed in the ecology of the microbiota.in population biology a ''patch'' was historically defined as a spatially clustered population i.e.

a ''patch'' is a spatially clustered population of a single species--in this example two patches of different sizes can be observed.

the spatial boundaries of a given patch e.g.

city limits are given by the boundaries of suit- able habitat and each patch is embedded in an inhospitable or neutral matrix .

in so doing meta-population biologists solved a fundamental problem in patch biology that spatially isolated populations have a stochastic non-zero probability of going extinct and should do so by chance over different timescales .

patch types are often defined by the dominant organism or land-usage regime  such as an oak woodland pine woodland or coastal sage scrub.

