taken altogether published literature suggests that the lung microbiome might serve in the future as a prognostic biomarker a therapeutic target andor provide an explanation for disease pathogenesis in ipf.keywords idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ipf interstitial lung diseases microbiome microbiotaintroductionidiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ipf is a rare lung disease of unknown origin which leads rapidly to death .

fastres aline felice florence roels elodie moermans catherine corhay jean-louis bureau fabrice louis renaud clercx cecile and guiot julien reviewed the final version of the manuscript.conflicts of interest the authors declare no conflict of interest.abbreviationsipfidiopathic pulmonary fibrosisbalbronchoalveolar lavagedggedegenerative gel electrophoresispcrpolymerase chain reactionildinterstitial lung diseaseiipidiopathic interstitial pneumoniacometcorrelating outcomes with biochemical markers to estimate time-progression balfbronchoalveolar lavage fluidotuoperational taxonomic unitcopd fvc pbmccpgchronic obstructive pulmonary disease forced vital capacityperipheral blood mononuclear cell cytosine-phosphate-guaninepfsprogression-free survival timenod pao2 fio2nucleotide binding oligomerization domain lower arterial oxygen tensioninspiratory oxygen fractioncrpc-reactive proteinreferencesraghu g. idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis guidelines for diagnosis and clinical management have advanced from consensus-based in 2000 to evidence-based in 2011. eur.

the first notable finding was a twofold higher bacterial load quantified by 16s rrna geneml balf in ipf balf compared with control subjects p  0.0001. secondly there was a significant association between patients with higher balf bacterial load and disease progression at six months defined by a decline in forced vital capacity fvc by 10 or death compared with controls p  0.02. furthermore it was possible to stratify patients according to bacterial burden in order to predict mortality risk patients with higher bacterial burden having an increased risk of mortality hazard ratio 4.59 compared with patients with low bacterial burden.

martinez f.j. idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis clinical research network prednisone azathioprine and n-acetylcysteine for pulmonary fibrosis.

further work in the form of either culture-specific or microbe-specific sequencing is needed to formally identify these bacteria.a large study published in 2014 investigated 65 well-defined ipf patients and 44 controls which included 27 healthy controls and 17 patients with moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd .

interestingly bacterial dna was not detected in five out of eight patients colonized with pneumocystis jirovecii suggesting this fungus may impair bacterial colonization of the airways .a small study then investigated the upper and lower respiratory tract microbiota in a heterogenous group of 18 patients with interstitial lung disease ild including five with idiopathic interstitial pneumonia iip six patients with pneumocystis associated pneumonia and nine healthy controls .

there was a signal toward lower bacterial diversity in the iips but this was not statistically significant.later on a multicenter cohort study of correlating outcomes with biochemical markers to estimate time-progression in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis comet  retrospectively characterized the lung microbiota in 55 ipf patients with no active infection at the time of screening by sequencing the genome of the bacteria found in baseline bronchoalveolar lavage fluid balf samples.

investigation of viral infection in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis among iranian patients in tehran.

effect of continued treatment with pirfenidone following clinically meaningful declines in forced vital capacity analysis of data from three phase 3 trials in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

nintedanib in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis combined evidence from the tomorrow and inpulsisr trials.

2013 1832 1018-1027.  dai j. cai h. li h. zhuang y. min h. wen y. yang j. gao q. shi y. yi l. association between telomere length and survival in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

studies in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ipf suggest that increased bacterial burden andor abundance of potentially pathogenic bacteria may drive disease progression acute exacerbations and mortality.

lung microbiome and disease progression in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis an analysis of the comet study.

such studies show that a high bacterial burden at the time of diagnosis seem to be a biomarker for a more-rapidly progressive disease with an increased risk of mortality .another study on 20 patients with diagnosed acute exacerbations of ipf and 15 matched controls with stable ipf who underwent bronchoscopy and dna extraction has shown that ipf patients presented an increased bacterial burden during exacerbations up to four times higher .

it is also very different from the mouth microbiome in comparison to healthy subjects which suggests a microbial selection in the lower respiratory tract in chronic lung disease  as each disease seems to have its own microbial signature including a loss of diversity along with dysbiosis .the first exploratory application of a culture-independent molecular technique in ipf studied the microbiome in bal from 17 ipf patients .

