This review provides an overview of the recent advances in microbiome research in relation to neuroautoimmune and neurodegenerative conditions affecting humans such as multiple sclerosis neuro- myelitis optica spectrum disorders Parkinson disease Alzheimer disease Huntington disease and amyotrophic later- al sclerosis.

To date this has been reported in multiple sclerosis MS4849 and Parkinson disease PD.50The Microbiome and Neuroimmune ConditionsMSCompelling evidence for the microbiome's role as either a trigger of neuroimmune disease or a driver of neuro- immune disease activity has largely emerged from ani- mal models of MS reviewed elsewhere5152.

Although excellent response rates 90 have been reported in relation to fecal microbial transplants for antibiotic-unresponsive Clostridium difficile127 it remains unclear whether such success will apply to other chronic con- ditions.128 Although pre- or probiotic interventions see sup- plementary online Glossary also termed psychobiotics have shown promise primarily in animal studies of anxiety and depression129130 substantial work is needed before any targeted intervention can be rationally recommended to pre- vent or ameliorate neurological diseases.Specific Gaps and OpportunitiesThe need for standardized protocols and pipelines for fecal collection transport and analyses to facilitate com- parisons between microbiome studies is critical.131 Large longitudinal studies are necessary to elucidate the dynam- ic relationship between the gut microbiota and neurolog- ical disease to determine the microbiome's role in the initiation of disease ongoing disease activity or later dis- ease progression.

Emerging evidence links perturbations in the gut microbiota to neurological disease including disease risk activity and progression.

Gut microbiota dysbiosis may contribute to disease onset A and also result from presence of disease B.

Gut microbiota dysbiosis may be further altered by the presence of disease and in some individuals contribute to future disease activity.

Based on the preliminary studies conducted to date in humans there is potential for the microbiome to be harnessed as a clinically useful biomarker of neurological disease onset phenotypic variability and disease activity.

However demonstrating a role of the microbiota as a necessary sufficient or contributory factor in facilitating onset of new neurological disease is extremely challenging.Microbial influence on immune development in childhood has been broadly demonstrated17 setting the stage for future disease.

Identifying prodromal Parkinson's disease pre-motor disorders in Parkinson's disease.

The microbiome and disease reviewing the links between the oral microbiome aging and Alzheimer's disease.

