it can con- tribute to obesity or metabolic syndrome 34. metabolic endo- toxemia me increased endotoxin in blood also triggers toll- like receptor 4-mediated inflammatory adipokines and leads to a chronic low grade inflammatory status which affects cardio- vascular risk increase and target organ damage 15-7. exercise is a safe and effective treatment to prevent obesity and to im-prove prognosis for obesity or cardiovascular diseases 8-10. although some evidence shows that exercise may modify gut microbiota such as endotoxin 10-14 the relationship between exercise and endotoxin has received less attention.

recently experimental and clinical studies about the role of bacterial li- popolysaccharides lps endotoxin have been noted 2. ener- gy intake is associated with endotoxemia in animals and human 1. the alteration of endotoxin can be involved in changes in energy extraction from the diet and modulation of endocrine functions lipid metabolism and the immune system.

in all blood samples se- rum was separated by centrifugation at 3000 rpm for 10 min- utes at room temperature and these were the re-centrifuged at 5000 rpm for 5 minutes to obtain cell-free serum which were stored at -80degc until analysis for lipid profiles glucose circulat- ing endotoxin and so on.analysis of circulating endotoxincirculating endotoxin level was analyzed using a commercially available qcl-1000tm limulus amebocyte lysate lal end- point assay lonza walkersville md usa.

low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ldl-c and high- density lipoprotein cholesterol hdl-c changed and showed significantly at pp4 reduced p  0.05 for ldl-c p  0.01 for hdl-c.the level of circulating endotoxin at baselinethe fasting circulating endotoxin level was 1.45 - 0.11 euml at baseline.

postprandial exposure to a high calorie meal led to a significant rise in circulating endotoxin levels and the peak level of circulating endotoxin showed after 2 hours 1.45 - 0.11 euml at fasting vs. 1.78 - 0.15 euml at pp2 and 1.75 - 0.14 euml at pp4 p  0.05 table 2 and fig.

diet for sev- eral days that participants ate before taking blood samples can exert an influence on circulating endotoxin levels.in conclusion this is the first study to the best of our knowl- edge to show circulating endotoxin levels in korea and we con- firm that high energy intake is associated with endotoxemia.

in this study we examined the circulating endotoxin level in korean obese women and investigated effects of exercise on it.

in korean obese women the fasting endotoxin was 1.45 - 0.11 eu ml.

all levels of circulating endotoxin at fasting pp2 and pp4 showed reduction.

but the peak change was only significant baseline vs. 12 weeks for pp2 1.78 - 0.15 vs. 1.48 - 0.06 euml p  0.05. we report the circulating endotoxin level in korean obese women for the first time.

in this study we examined the circulating endotoxin according to energy in- take and investigated impacts of controlled exercise on it in ko- rean women with obesity.materials and methodssubjectswe recruited women who met obesity criteria of body mass in- dex bmi 25 kgm2 or greater between the age of 19 and 60 years.

these changes of endotoxin related to a meal were similar pattern to those of glu- cose.the effect of 12 weeks exercise on anthropometric data table 1 shows the results comparing the average body compo- sition measured before and after 12 weeks of exercise.

the postprandial change of circulating endotoxin by ingestion of a high calorie meal showed a similar tendency at pre- and post-exercise.

the level of circulating endotoxin was increased after 2 hours and then reduced.

the peak level of circulating endotoxin measured at pp2 was significantly different between pre-exercise and post- exercise.

