while the vaginal microbiota was massively changed by the antibiotic the fum could not be shifted to the healthy cluster by metronidazole treatment additional file figure s4.metronidazole treatment of bv results in loss of diversity of the female urine microbiotathe urine microbiota diversity was clearly different in the various treatment groups analysed here diversity was largest in healthy men followed by healthy women then by women with acute bv and was lowest in women after metronidazole treatment of bv fig.

thus metronidazole treatment re- sulted in a decrease of g. vaginalis in ut 2 and ut 3 but not ut 1 and a concomitant increase of other bac- teria particularly l. iners bvab2 bvab3 megasphaera and a different enterobacteriaceae otu assigned to shigella dysenteriae.relationship between the microbiota of vaginal fluid and urine in bvsince the midstream urine samples analysed here can be expected to contain vaginal fluid microbiota to a certain extent we compared urine samples before and aftermetronidazole treatment with vaginal fluid samples of the same patients and at the same time points.

analysing the ef- fect of oral vs. vaginal metronidazole treatment on the urinary microbiota might give further insights into the role of the urinary microbiota in bv etiology and if modi- fications of the urinary microbiota by systemic metronida- zole treatment is beneficial or detrimental for bv recurrence.conclusionsthis study indicates that the male urine microbiota formed a subgroup of the female urinary microbiota ra- ther than a separate cluster suggesting that it was not strongly influenced by the distal regions of the urogenital tract.

by contrast l. crispatus which is the most abundant lacto- bacillus species in the vaginal fluid of healthy womentable 3 correlation of vaginal and urine microbiota of the same womentable 3 correlation of vaginal and urine microbiota of the same women continuedtable 3 correlation of vaginal and urine microbiota of the same women continuedut urotype r spearman correlation coefficient fdr bonferroni-corrected p value significant at p0.01 after bonferroni correctionand also present in the healthy fum where it consti- tutes ut 7 fig.

metronidazole treatment did not affect those otus that were abundant only in urine.discussionthe aim of our study was to characterize the urinary microbiota of healthy men and women and compare it to the urinary microbiota during acute bv and after anti- biotic treatment in order to better understand the role of bacteria in urine for bv and its etiology.

however most urine microbiota were not correlated with their va- ginal fluid counterpart suggesting that different micro- biota are located in bladder and urethra compared to the vagina.we then analysed the mean relative abundance of otus in urine and vaginal fluid samples in bv before and after treatment with metronidazole and compared it to the healthy fum.

samples of healthy individuals both men andwomen clustered mainly in ut 1a 75 ut 4 62 and ut7 100.individual microbial urinary profiles responded strongly to metronidazole treatmentstrong shifts of microbiota composition were observed in almost every woman after metronidazole treatment fig.

otus that were abundant in vaginal fluid samples but not in urine were s. sanguinegens and several otus belonging to the genus prevotella.interestingly one of the most striking results following metronidazole treatment was an increase in the mean relative abundance of l. iners in both vaginal fluid and urine to levels above those found in healthy urine.

urotype ut 1 was com- prised of four sub-clusters a through d and ut 3 of two sub-clusters a and b. all clusters contained samples from men and women in acute bv and after metronidazole treatment with the exception of ut 2 which was only found in women both during bv and after metronidazole treatment and ut 7 which was only found in healthy women.ut 1 was characterized by large diversity h'ut1 2.44 - 0.61 and high relative abundance of the bv- associated otus prevotella amnii sneathia amnii gardnerella vaginalis and atopobium vaginae whichdefined four sub-clusters.

because this study does not focus on rare otus resampling this dataset once was sufficient.the male urinary microbiota clustered as part of the female urinary microbiota which was different in health and bvthe healthy male urinary microbiota mum clustered in two distinct parts of the female healthy urinary micro- biota fum fig.

shannon diversity decreased in bv in contrast to the va- ginal microbiota where the diversity is strongly increased in bv  - alpha-diversity was unchanged in urine of healthy women and those with bv indicating that the shift in shannon diversity was caused by a shift of abundance.oral metronidazole treatment affected the urinary microbiota further indicated by an additional significant decrease in shannon diversity which persisted for up to28 days.

after treatment two of the six patients in ut 1 and one in ut 2 showed a correlation between vaginal fluid and urine microbiota but none of the urine samples from other urotypes correlated with vaginal fluid micro- biota composition.

therefore we additionally compared microbiota in urine samplesto those in vaginal fluid samples of the same women before and after metronidazole treatment of bv.we identified nine urotypes.

ut 1b c and d were dominated intable 2 overview of all urotypes and their characteristicsm healthy men f healthy women bv women with bv h' shannon index sd standard deviationrelative abundance by samples from women with bv but a few samples from healthy men and women were also present.

the remaining samples were grouped ac- cording to source urine or vaginal fluid but not accord- ing to bv status acute bv or after metronidazole treatment.to understand these clusters we analysed the correl- ation of urine microbial profile with vaginal fluid micro- bial profile in the same patient and separated the samples according to ut and considered only those that were significantly correlated p after bonferroni correc- tion 0.01 table additional file figure s5.

