email change expression of different genes participating in cell death and apoptosis 3 invasion and metastasis 4 cancer stem cell maintenance 5 as well as cell cycle control 6. further studies have shown their modulatory effects on the cancer- related signaling pathways in a cell type specific manner 7-9. in addition their anti- proliferative effects have been assessed in several cell line studies 10-12. notably a traditional fermented milk product has been shown to inhibit in vitroproliferation of mcf-7 breast cancer cells but not normal mammary epithelial cells which implies that the bioactive substances prompt responses that are specifically detected in tumor cells 13. special attention has been given to the effects of probiotics in reduction of invasion and metastasis in cancer cells in cell line studies as well as animal models and human studies.

indeed this protein provides a scaffold to fix a number oftight junction molecules together 16. on the other hand the matrix metalloproteinases mmps are regarded as critical participants of cell invasion through their role in degradation of various extracellular matrix proteins which enables cancer cells to migrate and invade 17. considerably cell- free supernatants cfs from l. casei and l. rhamnosus gg have been shown to prevent colon cancer cell invasion suggesting that probiotic cfs has anti-metastatic bioactive substances that may participate in cell in vation decrease in vitro 18. such decrease in cell invasion has been later found to be accompanied by a decrease in matrix metalloproteinase-9 mmp-9 protein level in cultured metastatic human colorectal carcinoma cells and an increase in the level of the tight junction protein zo-1 in cultured metastatic human colorectal carcinoma cells 19. in addition perioperative probiotic treatment has been shown to maintain the liver barrier in patients undergoing colorectal liver metastases surgery 20. a more recent study has shown that l. rhamnosus and l. crispatus cfsc can decrease expression of matrix metalloproteinase-2 mmp-2 mmp-9 in hela cells and increase expression of their inhibitors.

a notable decrease in tumor size and weight a considerable enhancement in helper t cells and cytotoxic t cells as well as significant decreases in metastasis to lung and bone marrow were detected in the kefir water-treated balbc mice after 4t1cancer cells transplantation 32. kefir has been shown to exert an anti- proliferative effect on caco- 2 and ht- 29 cells and is accompanied by induction of cell cycle arrest at the g1 phase induction of apoptosis up-regulation in baxbcl- 2 ratio and an increase in p53 independent- p21expression while it does not influence either the motility and invasion of these cells in vitro or mmp expression 33. in an in vitro model of the human epithelium l. plantarum prompted translocation of zo-1 to the tight junction region.

these effects are accompanied by augmentation of natural killer nk cell activity as well as cytolytic activity of axillary lymph node cells 55. another study has shown that lymph node cells activated by the subcutaneous injection of these lactobacilli participate in the suppression of the metastasis 6. matsuzaki et al.

the seed and soil hypothesis suggested by paget in 188969 is now extensively assented in the scientific literature 70. the progenitor cell initiating cellcancer stem cell or metastatic cell are now considered as the seed whereas host factors stroma or the organ microenvironment are regarded as the soil 70. the consequence of metastasis is reliant on the communication between tumor cells and receptive tissues 70. probiotics have been shown to influence all cell types and pathways implicated in the metastasis.

l. rhamnosus showed this effect in ht-29 cells as well 4. furthermore l. acidophilus and l. rhamnosus gg have been shown to regulate mmp- 9 expression by the up-regulation of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases timp-1 and down- regulation of cd147 in phorbol 12-myristate 13- acetate- differentiated human monocytes 21. cd147 is over-expressed in numerous tumor cells and enhances metastasis formation by induction of both angiogenesis and mmps expression 22 23. on the other hand timp-1 is tissue inhibitor of mmps and its up-regulation has resulted in the inhibition of mmp-2 and suppression of metastasis 24. recently it has also been reported that l. rhamnosus gg significantly down-regulates expression glut1 in the mda-mb-231 cells 8. this gene encodes an important rate-limitingprotein in the transport of glucose into cancer cells.

cell stem cell 20118399-411.palmer td ashby wj lewis jd et al.

another study has revealed that a combination of eight gram-positive bacterial strains streptococcus thermophilus bifidobac- terium longum bifidobacterium breve bifidoba- cterium infantis l. acidophilus l. plantarum l. casei and l. bulgaricus could activate nk cells to provide enhanced differentiation of cscs which finally has led to suppression of tumor growth and decreased inflammatory cytokine release 40. in addition we recently detected the over-expression of sfrp2 an antagonist of wnt pathway in ht-29 colorectal cancer cells following l. rhamnosus treatment and in hela cells following l. rhamnosus and l. crispatus treatments.

the immune responses include an increase in the level of ifn-g and il-17 as t helper 1 cytokines and enhancement in the activity of nk cells 57. aragon et al.

the results of these studies have been summarized in the following sections.evidence acquisitionwe performed a computerized search of the medlinepubmed web of knowledge scopus proquest and google scholar databases with key words cancer probiotics lactobacilli metastasis and invasion within the maximal date range until 2017.cell-cell adhesiontight junction between epithelial and endothelial cells has a critical role in preserving cell to cell integrity.

its methylation diminishes the cell-to-cell adhesion in the cancer cells leading to enhancement of invasive potential 27. runx3 inhibits cancer cell migration and invasion through up-regulation of timp-2 which successively prevents mmp-2 expression and function 28. rassf1a is a genuine tumor suppressor protein that can enhance death receptor-dependent cell death through tnf-r1 trail or fas activation 29. moreover its methylation has been shown to be associated with colorectal cancer development 30. considering the role of l. acidophilus nck2025 in restoration of expression of mentioned tumor suppressor genes this probiotic might be efficient in suppression of metastasis.

also they induce specific signaling pathways and transcription factors such as notch and oct4 which are implicated in stem cell self-renewal and multipotency 43. notably l. rhamnosus has been shown to down-regulate the expression of hif-1a in mda-mb-231 triple negative breast cancer cell lines 8. considering the specific activation ofhif-1a signaling in the stem cells of mouse lymphoma and human acute myeloid leukemia and the effect of their inhibitors in preferential eradication of cscs in mouse models 38 modulation of hif-1a signaling following treatment with lactobacilli might be of therapeutic value.

cell j 201618127-34.azam r ghafouri-fard s tabrizi m et al.

cell j 201618237-44.esfandiary a abedin-do a taherian-esfahani z et al.

cell j 20181976pages.luke j vukoja v brandenbusch t et al.

