exploring the relationships between the microbial environment and complement biomarkers may elucidate a potentially modifiable biological pathway to ptb.keywordspreterm birth microbiome inflammation in pregnancy complement systempreterm birth ptb defined as birth at 37 completed weeks' gestation is one of the leading obstetrical problems in the united states affecting nearly 500000--or 1 of every 9-- infants born annually centers for disease control and preven- tion 2014. ptb is the greatest risk factor for infant death contributing to 35 of all infant deaths and health-care costs in excess of us 26 billion annually march of dimes 2015. although ptb rates have declined in the general u.s. popula- tion since 2007 the overall rate remains around 12 which exceeds the march of dimes prematurity campaign 2020 ptb rate goal of 8.1 centers for disease control and prevention 2014 march of dimes 2016 j. a. martin hamilton oster- man curtin  matthews 2015. additionally a higher pre- valence of ptb persists among ethnic and racial subgroups culhane  goldenberg 2011. african american aa women one of the groups at highest risk are 1.5 times as likely to experience ptb and nearly 2 times as likely to have an early ptb 32 weeks' gestation compared to caucasian women culhane  goldenberg 2011 kramer hogue dunlop  menon 2011 march of dimes 2014. authors have reported that identified risk factors associated with ptb such as mater- nal age history of infection and substance use explain less thanhalf of the disparity in rate of ptb between aa and caucasian women goldenberg culhane  iams 2008 mcgrady sung rowley  hogue 1992. identification of novel biobehavioral pathways to ptb may ultimately lead to the development of interventions to reduce the risk of ptb particularly among groups with the greatest risk.although many mammalian species exhibit slight variations in gestational length ptb appears to be primarily a human phenomenon phillips abbot  rokas 2015. identification of the underlying biological mechanisms of ptb is difficult as the complication is syndromic in nature and includes biological1 nell hodgson woodruff school of nursing emory university atlanta ga usa2 rollins school of public health emory university atlanta ga usa3 school of medicine winship cancer institute emory university atlanta ga usacorresponding authoralexis b. dunn msn cnm nell hodgson woodruff school of nursing emory university 1520 clifton road ne atlanta ga 30322 usa.email e.g.

2004 jeffcoat geurs reddy gold- enberg  hauth 2001 offenbacher 2004 are associated with ptb 2 several ptb studies have identified pathogenic microbes from the chorioamnion and amniotic fluid of women with ptb digiulio 2012 marconi de andrade ramos per- acoli donders  da silva 2011 3 subclinical intrauterine infection is associated with ptb gomez et al.

this process suggests that mechanisms that alter inflammatory events at the maternal-fetal interface may be predictive of ptb holst mattsby-baltzer wennerholm hag- berg  jacobsson 2005 vogel thorsen curry sandager  uldbjerg 2005. despite this relationship between infection and ptb randomized controlled trials directly targeting known contributors of intrauterine infection--including the elimina- tion of bacterial vaginosis bv sexually transmitted infec- tions and periodontal disease during pregnancy--have shown limited efficacy in reducing the risk of ptb lynch wagner deterding et al.

1985. using these newer methods to explore routes associated with intrauterine infection such as the bacterial flora of the vagina may be beneficial particularly in women at risk for ptb and may reveal a pathway to ptb in women who present without overt signs of clinical infection.although there are many proposed routes to intrauterine infection including hematogenous spread of microbes from the oral han et al.

2009.the microbiome and complement activation a mechanistic model for ptbintrauterine infection and inflammation have been identified as definitive risk factors in the etiology of ptb however interventions directly targeting the elimination of infection have not resulted in reducing the risk of ptb.

2011. if complement attaches to thesereproductive tissues then macrophages can likewise attach via their complement receptors and begin to degrade the tissue which may be another pathway to ptb figure 1. we propose that women who have one or more triggers for complement activation including foreign substances damaged tissue and or infection may be prone to complement dysregulation leading to overwhelmed regulatory systems and increasing the risk for perinatal complications via direct injury from the effects of complement dysregulation in the reproductive tis- sues or via effects of the resulting inflammatory response as previously described.we propose that the dysregulation of maternal complement activation at any point across gestation implantation to 37 weeks' gestation may increase the risk of ptb as shown in figure 2. during early pregnancy there is normal physiologic activation of complement to prevent infection at the maternal- fetal interface and to promote the clearance of tissue debris resulting from implantation and placental development.

2008 2011. similarly we propose that dysregulation of maternal complement could also occur later during gestation as a result of similar factors including infection shifts in the microbiome composition or normal physiologic activation.conclusionsthe relationships between infection and ptb and pprom sug- gest a major role for both the microbiome and complement dysregulation in the biological pathway to ptb.

trials to treat various infections have shown limited efficacy in reducing ptb risk suggesting that other complex mechanisms including those associated with inflammation may be involved in the relationship between microbes infection and ptb.

2008 kramer  hogue 2009. of the many biological processes implicated in the onset of ptb intrauterine infection andor inflammation are strongly associated with an increased risk for ptb goldenberg hauth  andrews 2000 goncalves chai- worapongsa  romero 2002 romero et al.

given the ability of the microbiome to influence the expression of complement in other situations and the sus- pected associations of vaginal and even oral microbialdysbiosis as a risk for ptb in the present article we summar- ize the current knowledge regarding the role of infection and inflammation in the context of ptb with a specific focus on the role of the microbiome and the complement system.

identification of biological pathways of inflammation particularly in high-risk groups may identify potential targets for intervention to eliminate this stubbornly persistent adverse pregnancy outcome and health disparity.mechanisms of ptb infection and inflammationthe study of ptb has involved the investigation of a variety of anatomical endocrinological immunological and clinical events that affect both the mother and fetus.

2011. we have presented a hypothesis therefore that the infection-associated pathway to ptb does not involve only the presence and activ- ities of pathogenic microbiota rather it is more complex and may involve the combination of pathogenic microbes present the ratio of pathogens to one another the number of protective species present in the environment and the indi- vidual woman's inflammatory--and complement--response to these factors.in summary intrauterine infection and the activation of pro- inflammatory processes in the intrauterine environment are definitive risk factors for ptb.

2006 romero gotsch pineles  kusanovic 2007. the mechanisms involved in initiating the process remain unclear but one of the major focal areas of obstetrical research is the study of pathogenic processes highly associated with ptb including infection and inflammation.infection and ptbevidence suggesting a relationship between infection and pre- term parturition is readily available 1 extrauterine infections such as pyelonephritis kaul et al.

1996 moroz  simhan 2014. common microorganisms isolated from women with intrauterine infection and ptb include mycoplasma streptococcus ureaplasma bacteroides and prevotella species hill 1998. these findings suggest that microbial invasion and inflammation in the maternal reproduc- tive tissues may be predictive of ptb.inflammation and ptbreview of the inflammatory response to infection.

these cytokines then attract other cellular populations to the site of infection lawrence 2009. there are many different types of cytokines but interleukin 1 beta il-1b il-6 il-8 and il-12 in partic- ular are heavily involved in the recruitment of different cellu- lar populations during the early stages of infection janeway  medzhitov 2002. the cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha tnf-a in turn drives the vasodilation of blood vessels andis heavily involved in endothelial leukocyte cellular activity bradley 2008 which allows for the movement of fluid plasma proteins and white blood cells into the tissue resulting in inflammation.role of exaggerated inflammation in ptb.

