to determine whether these cells were sufficient to confer protection wt cd4th t cells were adoptively transferred into rag1 ko or rag1 ko ca-mlck recipients d. within 2 weeks cd4th t cells were effectively reconstituted in the lp of both ca-mlck and wt mice e. notably 73 more lp cd4th t cells were present in the lp of rag1 ko ca-mlck relative to rag1 ko recipients e. whereas cd4th t-cell transfer into rag1 ko mice had no effect on bacterial invasion cd4th t-cell transfer into rag1 ko ca-mlck mice reduced invasion by 43 f. these data demonstrate that cd4th t cells are sufficient to limit early s typhimurium invasion.

furthermore lp cd4th t-cell and igath plasma cell numbers were similar in gf ca-mlck and gf wt mice indicating that the differences induced by ca-mlck expression in conventional mice are dependent on the microbiota a and b. when chal- lenged with s typhimurium invasion was similar in gf ca-mlck and gf wt mice c.sfb are commensal bacteria known to promote th17 differentiation in the small intestine and although abundant in c57bl6ntac mice from taconic farms are undetectable in c57bl6j from jackson laboratories.previous studies have shown that in addition to driving th17 differentiation sfb colonization of c57bl6j from jackson laboratories promotes th17-dependent neutrophil recruitmentsimilar to that observed here c. to compare the effects of sfb-containing and sfb-deficient microbiota gf ca-mlck and wt mice were conventionalized with cecal contents from taconic farms tac and jackson laboratories jax mice.

ca-mlck mice were crossed to tcrdh2begfp tcrdegfpil17a koor igha komice provided by dennis metzger albany medical college albany ny.germ-free gf transgenic ca-mlck mice were pro- duced by rederivation of spf c57bl6j females mated with spf ca-mlck males.

p  .05.chose this model to investigate the impact of physiologically relevant tight junction barrier defects on host defense.as previously reported in the colon lp cd4th t-cell numbers were increased in the small intestine of ca-mlck relative to wt mice a and b. to investigate how tight junction barrier loss and the associated lp immune expansion affect susceptibility to enteric pathogens ca-mlck and wt mice were infected orally with the intracellular protozoan parasite t gondii c. within1 hour the number of parasites that had transmigrated across the epithelium and into the lp was reduced by 50- 8 in ca-mlck mice relative to wt d. para- doxically this indicates that increased intestinal perme- ability limits parasite invasion.

mean - sem are shown.however ca-mlck expression within tcrd ko mice markedly reduced bacterial invasion indicating that although important to overall host defense gd t cells did not account for the observed effects of ca-mlck expression e and f. consistent with this gd t-cell numbers were similar in ca-mlck and wt mice g. taken together these data demonstrate that increased epithelial permeability promotes immune activation to markedly reduce early invasion of parasites and bacterial pathogens during the initial stages of infection.

this protection requires adaptive immunity but is gd t-cell-independent.cd4th t cells are required for constitutively active myosin light chain kinase-induced protection against bacterial invasionto better elucidate the immune cell populations contributing to the invasion-resistant phenotype of ca-mlck mice we depleted cd4th t cells and challenged mice with luminal s typhimurium a and b. cd4th t-cell depletion had no effect on early bacterial trans- location in wt mice but increased bacterial invasion more than 5-fold in ca-mlck mice relative to mice receivingcontrol igg c. the disparity between ca-mlck and wt mice suggests that our initial hypothesis that increased tight junction permeability would enhance path- ogen invasion was correct.

cd4th t-cell depletion did not affect iga-producing plasma cell number in the lp of ca-mlck or wt mice f. because of the requirement for cd4th t cells in the enhanced immunity of ca-mlck mice these data lend further support to the conclusion that iga is not required for the protection observed in ca-mlck mice.interleukin 17a expression promotesneutrophil recruitment to prevent early bacterial invasion in constitutively active myosin light chain kinase micecertain strains of commensal bacteria modulate specific immune responses.

for example sfb are known to promote th17 differentiation in the small intestineand activation of these th17 cells is critical to pathogen clearance and maintenance of host defense.to determine the role of il17 in cd4th t-cell-mediated protection against bacterial invasion ca-mlck mice were generated on an il17a- deficientbackground.il17adeficiencysignificantly increased acute s typhimurium invasion in ca-mlck trans- genic mice a. more strikingly il17a knockout eliminated cd4th t-cell expansion within the lp of ca-mlck mice b. these data show that il17a is required to generate the increased numbers of lp cd4th t cells seen in ca- mlck mice and that both il17a and cd4th t cells are neces- sary for early protection against s typhimurium translocation.

this protection was due to enhanced mucosal immune activation that required cd4th t cells and interleukin 17a but not immunoglobulin a. the protective mucosal immune activation in ca-mlck mice depended on segmented fila- mentous bacteria sfb because protection against early s typhimurium invasion was lost in germ-free ca-mlck mice but could be restored by conventionalization with sfb- containing not sfb-deficient microbiota.

in addition to the epithelial barrier several mechanisms have evolved to limit pathogen inva- sion including the synthesis of antimicrobial immuno- globulin ig a and igg by plasma cells in the lamina propriaage.we hypothesized that the barrier defects resulting from ca-mlck expression would render these mice more susceptible to enteric infection.surprisingly our data show that ca-mlck mice are pro- tected against early pathogen invasion.

ca-mlck expressionwithin the intestinal epithelium markedly increased perijunctional myosin ii regulatory light chain phosphorylation a and also enhanced small intestinal paracellular ie tight junction permeability in a size-selective manner b. despite this barrier defect ca-mlck mice did not develop spontaneous colitis.

ca-mlck mice exhibit increases in paracellular permeability that are similar to those seen in crohn's disease patients during remission as well as in a subset of their healthy relatives.therefore wefigure 1. constitutive epithelial expression of ca-mlck increases intestinal permeability.

as with the protozoanbacterialtranslocationwasreducedby 76 - 6 in ca-mlck relative to wt mice e and f. to determine whether the increased lp infiltration of adaptive immune cells was required for ca-mlck-mediated protection against bacterial invasion rag1 knockout ko ca-mlck mice lacking both b and t cells were challenged with s typhimurium.

bacterial translocation in rag1 ko ca-mlck mice was similar to that in rag1 ko mice alone e and f indicating that adaptive immunity is required for the protective effect of ca-mlck expression.

because cd4th t cells from wt mice were protective in rag1 ko ca-mlck mice the data indicate that changes in the local mucosalfigure 3. cd4d t cells are required to confer protection against bacterial invasion in ca-mlck mice.

