the current paradigm depicts an ifniinduced anti proliferative state in the intestinal epithelium enabling cell differentiation cell maturation and proper intestinal barrier function strongly supporting its role in maintaining baseline immune activity and clearance of damaged epithelia or pathogens.

dysregulation of this delicate balance can be detrimental resulting in severe inflam mation intestinal injury and cancer.

using animal models of colitis investigations into the regulation of intestinal epithelium inflammation highlight the role of ifni signaling during fine modulation of the immune system.

the intestinal epithelium of the gut guides the immune system to differentiate between commensal and pathogenic microbiota which relies on intimate links with the ifni signaltransduction pathway.

in this review we will highlight the importance of ifni in intestinal homeostasis by discussing its function in inflammation immunity and cancer.keywords interferon intestine inflammation microbiome epitheliumintroductionthe gastrointestinal gi tract has the greatest mucosal surface area of any organ system shared with the environment interacting with a wide array of microbes and chemical irritants.

the establishment of healthy intestinal microbiota can be hindered due to lack of exposure to commensal bacteria or upon treatment with antibiotic medica- tions .

the initiation and progression of human inflammatory bowel diseases ibds are reliant on the dysregulation of complex interactions among genetic environmental and immune factors as well as physical barriers within the intestinal mucosa.

this protective barrier is provided by the inner lining of the intestine a single-cell layer of intestinal epithelial cells iecs and their specialized subtypes e.g.

iecs serve an essential role as regulators of mucosal immune responses  and as cohabitants withinthe intestinal environs which can be colonized by commensal or pathogenic bacteria fungi and viruses .

alterations to the ifnar1 gene have been linked to suscepti- bility for ibd and changes to microbiome populations   thus providing supporting evidence that ifn-i contribute to immune defenses against conditionally pathogenic microbiota and intestinal inflammation .

phagocytes collected from the colonic lamina propria lp of ifnar1-- mice produced less il-10 il-1ra and il-27 than did cells from wt mice  demonstrating an important role for ifn-i signaling driving the expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines by gut phagocytes and maintenance of intestinal t cell homeostasis.

altogether ifn-i activate and orchestrate different programs to keep inflammation under control.ifn-i are instrumental in maintaining homeostasis in the gutbalance of the microbiome within the small and large intestine is important for not only maintenance of the intestinal epithe- lium proper digestion and nutrient uptake but is also strongly tied to immunity inflammation and cancer risk  .

the lp is the layer of connective tissue underneath the intestinal epithe- lium enriched in immune cells.

in the colon cd11c dcs cells express mrna for ifn-a5- ifn-a9- and ifn-iisgs3-inducedgenes thus indicative of active ifn-i production and signaling.proper regulation of epithelial cell turnover in the intestinal lin- ing is important for balance between replacement of damaged sloughed cells and hyperplasia which leads to pre-cancerous polyp formation  .

moreover ifn-a can induce the expression of gbp-1  shown to prevent apoptosis and promote intestinal epithelial barrier integrity .

