with the exception of one m. haemolytica isolate all were isolated from cattle the number and relative frequency of detection of bacterial and viral pathogens in the paranasal sinuses caudal frontal rostral medial frontal rostral lateral frontal and maxillary sinuses of clinically normal cattle n  99 and of cattle submitted for post-mortem examination pme n  34. polymerase chain reaction pcr analyses were performed for brsv n  133 bpiv-3 n  133 m.haemolytica n  56 p. multocida n  56 h. somni n  67 and m. bovis n  67.doi10.1371journal.pone.0173845.t001that had been submitted for pme.

recognised brd pathogens were isolated at low frequency m. haemolytica n  2 both isolated from a single maxillary sinus trueperella pyo- genes 1 maxillary sinus p. multocida 1 caudal frontal sinus and bibersteinia trehalosi 1 maxillary sinus.

a swab of incised lung and of tracheal mucosa taken from a transverse incision at the tracheal bifurcation for bacterial n  57 and viral n  133 pcr analysis and heart blood n  131 for viral serology were also harvested.paranasal sinuses were subsequently exposed in a subset of healthy n  5 cattle and those submitted for pme n  12 using a circular saw to reflect the dorsal bone of the caudal frontal medial rostral frontal and lateral rostral frontal sinuses.

all isolates were identified by traditional identification methods using a combination of gram staining catalase oxidase urease indole and api1strip tests biome'rieux marcy l'etoile france.polymerase chain reaction pcr analysispcr analysis was performed on swabs from each of the eight paranasal sinuses as well as from the trachea and lungs for the detection of m. bovis n  67 animals h. somni n  67 m. hae- molytica n  56 and p. multocida n  56 as previously described .

other diagnoses recorded in the studypopulation included peritonitis n  3 enteritis n  2 black disease n  2 and pericarditis n  2 among others .routine bacteriologyroutine bacteriology results are presented in .

anaerobic bacteria were isolated from the paranasal sinuses of two animals--from three both rostral lateral frotal and one rostral medial frontal sinus and two sinuses caudal frontal sinus and rostral lateral frontal sinus respectively.bacterial pcrbacterial pcr results are also presented in .

the maxil- lary sinus communicates with the palatine sinus and the lacrimal sinus.

the mucosa of the sinus was swabbed in a circular motion for three seconds at each sinus sampling site n  8 prior to removal of each swab and transportation to the laboratory for immediate processing.

lung viral pcr results are presented in indicating the detection of bpiv-3 in the lung and tracheal tissue of one animal while brsv was not detected in the lung or trachea of any animal examined.histopathological examination and immunohistochemistry ihc for inosno significant changes were observed on histopathological examination of the sampled sinus epithelia n  17. intra-epithelial cytoplasmic inos expression was detected in 76.5 n  13 of a sub-sample of 17 animals .

of the animals submitted for pme pneumonia was the most com- monly recorded diagnosis n  9. h. somni n  5 and m. haemolytica n  1 were the respi- ratory pathogens identified with greatest frequency in the sinuses of these 9 animals.

inflammation was not a feature of any of our sample population although we did identify the pathogens m. haemolytica n  2 p. multocida n  1 and t. pyogenes n  1 at low fre- quency.

per- cent positivity pp was calculated as follows corrected od of the samplecorrected od of the positive control x 100. serum samples were considered positive if their pp value was greater than or equal to 10.immunohistochemistry ihc for the detection of inducible nitric oxide synthase inoshistopathological examination and ihc for inos detection was performed on 5mm-thick sec- tions of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded bovine sinus mucosa from the caudal frontal sinus mounted on glass slides superfrost plus fischer scientific dublin ireland.

the relative frequency of detection of antibodies to bpiv-3 and brsv in serum and the relative frequency of detection of selected viral and bacterial brd-causing pathogens in the trachea and lungs of the study population.doi10.1371journal.pone.0173845.t002a b and c photomicrographs of bovine paranasal sinus epithelium with positive red immunohistochemical staining of epithelial cells a and b denoting expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase inos and of the negative control c ax10 b x40 c x40.doi10.1371journal.pone.0173845.g002discussionthis is the first study to document the microbial flora of the bovine paranasal sinuses and to demonstrate the expression of no by the sinus epithelium.

lundberg and colleagues  reported that the nos present in the paranasal sinus mucosa of humans was identical to inos and was calcium-independent but its regula- tion in the paranasal sinus appeared to be fundamentally different from inos found in inflamed tissue or activated white blood cells as it was constantly expressed was not downre- gulated by glucocorticoids and behaved similarly to constitutive nos.

bpiv-3 was detected by pcr in the sinus of only one animal while brsv was not detected in the sinus of any animal suggesting that the persistence ofbrd-causing viruses is unlikely in the sinuses.

