on the following day the rats were randomly assigned to four groups n  14 anesthetized with chloral hydrate 440 mgkg and submitted to the following treatments g1 - topical application of propolis varnish pv type 12 propolis from southeastern brazil13 - propolis ethanolic extract 15 wv g2 - topical application of chitosan varnish cv varnish base vehicle control g3 - topical application of a gold-standard varnish duraphat fluoride 2.26 wv positive control and g4 - untreated groupnegative control.

different superscript letters in the same column indicate significant differences among treatments one-way anova withtukey-kramer hsd p  0.05.15012510075502501501251007550250figure 1. mtt-based viability assay of fibroblast culture after 24 hours in contact with the following materials positive control culture medium  cells negative control culture medium test varnish propolis varnish fluoride-containing varnish gold standard duraphatr vehicle control chitosan varnish and 1 acetic acid.

four asterisks  indicate significant differences among the groups at p  0.0001 one-way anova with tukey-kramer hsd.figure 2. mtt-based viability assay of fibroblast culture after 48 hours in contact with the following materials positive control culture mediumcells negative control culture medium test varnish propolis varnish fluoride-containing varnish gold standard duraphatr vehicle control chitosan varnish and 1 acetic acid.

concerning smooth-surface enamel caries there was no difference in the preventive effects of the experimental varnish versus the gs.further studies are now needed to establish an efficacious protocol to sustain long-term antimicrobial activity of the propolis varnish particularly to prevent advanced dentinal carious lesions under a high cariogenic challenge.acknowledgmentsthe authors are grateful to the national council for scientific and technological development cnpq for the scholarship and wish to thank andre augusto gomes faraco and jucara ribeiro franca for manufacturing the propolis varnish and eliane franco and jose carlos for their technical support as well as bruna benso carina denny laila facin livia galvao camila batista luiz eduardo ferreira and cleiton p. santos for their valuable help in the experiments.referencespetersen pe bourgeois d ogawa h estupinan-day s ndiaye c. the global burden of oral diseases and risks to oral health.

fifty-six spf female wistar rats were infected with streptococcus mutans ua159 sm and allocated into four groups n  14group g1 propolis varnish 15pv g2 chitosan varnish cvvehicle g3 gold standard gsduraphatr and g4 untreated.

the carbohydrate fermentation process createslow-phmicroenvironments that favor enamel and dentin demineralization.6natural products are major sources of bioactive moleculesandpharmaceuticalleads andhavetherefore contributed significantly todrugdevelopment.7among these propolis is one such product that stands out for its biological properties mainly as an antimicrobial with direct application in dentistry.89 its anti-caries mechanism of action is associated with inhibition of glucosyltransferases and downregulation of specific genes associated with stress survival and tolerance in s. mutans.10 moreover some flavonoids terpenoids isoflavones and other phenolic acids contained in propolis were found to diminish s. mutans acid production and tolerance.101112overall a large number of biological activities have been attributed to different types of propolis including antimicrobial antifungal antitumor and others.9 propolis type 12 from southeastern brazil13 demonstrated strong antibacterial effects and prevented caries development in rats.14 in addition topical application of the ethanolic extract of other types of propolis was also found to effectively reduce the incidence andseverity of carious lesions in vivo.141516 however the biological effects of propolis may vary according to the geographical origin and chemical composition of the collected sample.16varnishes are materials widely used in dentistry for the prevention of dental caries.17 some active principles can be incorporated into these formulations to promote and prolong their anti-caries effects including fluoride with remineralizing action18 and chlorhexidine with antimicrobial action.19an experimental propolis-containing varnish was developed by our research group as reported elsewhere.20 our previous findings demonstrated that the experimental varnish has in vitro antimicrobial activity against cariogenic bacteria and showed a very satisfactory sustained release of propolis in vitro.20 these data have encouraged us to investigate the anti-caries activity of this experimental formulation using an animal model under a high cariogenicchallenge.

the materials tested were a. culture medium  cells control b. culture medium c. pv type 12 propolis from southeastern brazil - propolis ethanolic extract 15 wv d. cv varnish base vehicle control e. gold-standard gs varnish duraphat fluoride 2.26 wv positive control and f. acetic acid 1 vv.20one millimeter of each product was placed on round glass coverslips 9-mm diameter and dried undervacuumfor 24 h. thenthe fibroblastswereplated into 48-well microtiter plates 4 x 105 cellswell.

this suggests that application of propolis varnish in intimate contact with the oral tissues is not potentially harmful to host cells.chitosan is a biocompatible and biodegradable poly meric material 3 3 with non- tox ic a nd antimicrobial properties.34 chitosan of medium molecular weight was used as a vehicle during preparation of the experimental varnish.

the anti-caries activity and toxicity of an experimental propolis-containing varnishmariana passos de lucaa irlan almeida freiresb alfonso gala-garciac vagner rodrigues santosd miriam pimenta valea severino matias de alencare pedro luiz rosalenfauniversidade federal de minas gerais - ufmg school of dentistry department of pediatric dentistry and orthodontics belo horizonte mg brazil.buniversity of florida college of dentistry department of oral biology gainesville fl united states.cuniversidade federal de minas gerais - ufmg school of dentistry department of restorative dentistry belo horizonte mg brazil.duniversidade federal de minas gerais - ufmg school of dentistry department of oral pathology and oral surgery belo horizonte mg brazil.euniversidade de sao paulo - usp luiz de queiroz college of agriculture department of agri-food industry piracicaba sp brazil.funiversidade de campinas - unicamp piracicaba dental school department of physiological sciences piracicaba sp brazil.declaration of interests the authors certify that they have no commercial or associative interest that represents a conflict of interest in connection with the manuscript.corresponding authormariana passos de lucae-mail httpsdoi.org10.15901807-3107bor-2017.vol31.0045abstract we investigated the anti-caries effects of an experimental propolis varnish in vivo and further tested its toxicity against fibroblasts.

the animals received a single varnish application on their molars and were submitted to a high cariogenic challenge diet-2000 56 sucrose and 5 sucrose-added water ad libitum for 4 weeks.

herein weinvestigatedthe anti-carieseffects of the experimental propolis varnish in a rat model and further tested its toxicity against fibroblasts to provide enough information to perform clinical trials and eventually promote future clinical use.methodologyanimalsfifty-six specific pathogen-free spf female wistar rats were obtained from cemib multidisciplinary centerfor biological research universityof campinas sp brazil and maintained at the animal facility of piracicaba dental school piracicaba sp brazil.

as seen in figures 1 and 2 no significant difference was observed in fibroblast viability between pv and the gs after 24-h or 48-h exposure respectively p  0.0001.table 2. effects of the treatment with the experimental propolis varnish on the development and severity of smooth-surface caries in rats.

different superscript letters in the same column indicate significant differences among treatments one-way anova withtukey-kramer hsd p  0.05.table 3. effects of the treatment with the experimental propolis varnish on the development and severity of sulcal caries in rats.

polysaccharide production and acid tolerance rather than affecting unspecific or specific microbiome viability considered a highly desirable quality.in our study the experimental propolis- containing varnish was able to reduce the onset of smooth-surface caries in the enamel similarly to the gs duraphatr.

while this result may mean that the propolis varnish had no satisfactory antimicrobial activity to prevent advanced smooth-surface and sulcal caries one should take into consideration that such an effect was evaluated only at one endpoint when the material was probably no longer adhered to the tooth structure.

