atropine pretreatment abolished these findings providing evidence for an acid-induced vagally mediated esophagobronchial reflex therefore although the results show definitive aspiration as denoted by the presence of pepsin in the bal of the cohort the possibility remains for worsening of asthma symptoms without aspiration into the lungs but simply into the esophagus potentially via this alternative mechanism.it has been demonstrated that pepsin and therefore aspiration occurs in the lungs of people with asthmahowever there does not seem to be a clear link between its presence and disease severity.

however this study did not address the role of aspiration and future risk of exacerbation.chest 2017 15161272-1278key words aspiration asthma inflammation refluxabbreviations acq-7  asthma control questionnaire 7 cf  cystic fibrosis elisa  enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ger  gastro-esophageal reflux ppi  proton pump inhibitoraffiliations from the department of respiratory medicine drs hunt plant and murphy cork university hospital cork ireland the institute of cellular medicine drs ward and pearson newcastle university newcastle upon tyne england the department of radi- ology drs power and maher cork university hospital cork ireland the apc microbiome institute ms sullivan and drs lapthorne and macsharry schools of medicine and microbiology university college cork ireland the michael g degroote school of medicine dr o'byrne mcmaster university hamilton ontario canada and the hrb clinical research facility drs hunt eustace plant maher and murphy university college cork cork ireland.drs macsharry and murphy contributed equally to this manuscript.fundingsupport dr murphy has received funding from the wilton respiratory research fund to support this research.

levels of pepsin used as a biomarker of gastric aspiration are elevated in bal of lung transplant recipients and are associated with acute and chronic rejection.fundoplication which reduces or prevents aspiration has been successfully used after lung transplant in uncontrolled studies.

bal ph also had no significant association with disease severity c.there was no significant difference between barium study result and bal pepsin mean sd pepsin for positive study 3.4 1.3 vs 3.8 1.4 ngml for negative study p 14 nonsignificance d. when the cohort was divided into positivenegative barium swallow there was no association between positive barium swallow and acq-7 asthma severity exacerbation frequency or fev1 on either univariate or multivariate analyses.in a simultaneous multivariable linear regression model acq-7 scores were significantly related to oral corticosteroid use b 14 1.2 p 14 .006 inhaled corticosteroid use b 14 0.83 p  .001 but notdetectable bal pepsin b 14 0.004 p 14.99.discussionresearch to date pertaining to the possible utility of bal pepsin as a marker of aspiration has been undertaken mainly in the areas of acute lung injury end-stage lung disease and post-lung transplantation.it has been shown that detection of pepsin and bile acids in bal and exhaled breath condensate can be used to aid identification of lung transplantation recipients with ger-induced aspiration.

because of an interest in the role of aspiration be it acidic or nonacidic refluxate barium swallow at the time of initial study planning and approval was believed to be an appropriate means to assess for reflux with the presence of bal pepsin ultimately defining the presence of aspiration.

 original research asthma the potential role of aspiration in the asthmatic airwayeoin b. hunt md chris ward phd stephen power md ashley sullivan bsc jeffrey p. pearson phdsusan lapthorne phd paul m. o'byrne md fccp joseph eustace md barry j. plant md michael m. maher md john macsharry phd and desmond m. murphy md fccpbackground many people with asthma remain suboptimally controlled despite current treatments.

we aimed to investigate whether aspiration occurs in patients with asthma and if so does it correlate with asthma controlmethods patients had asthma control questionnaire 7 acq-7 fractional exhaled nitric oxide and spirometry performed to characterize their level of asthma control.

barium swallow with provocation was performed to assess for predisposition to aspiration.

a positive barium swallow seen in 3360 patients did not correlate with bal pepsin level and we found no significant association between barium swallow result and acq-7 global initiative for asthma exacerbation frequency or fev1 using either univariate or multivariate analyses.conclusions this study suggests that the importance of aspiration on current asthma symptom control and exacerbation rate may be overstated.

however although ger may predispose to aspiration it is not synonymous with it.

in addition treatment with ppis reduces gastric acidity and thus acidity of reflux but does not prevent nonacid reflux or aspiration into the airways of at risk patients.if such nonacid reflux is mechanistically important then ppis would be expected to be of limited efficacy.pepsin is produced in the stomach in response to substances such as cholecystokinin cck gastrin vasoactive intestinal peptide vip secretin and insulin.

successful fundoplication has also been reported in patients with asthma albeit in case reports and series.the aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of aspiration as defined by detectable pepsin in bal in a cohort of patients with mild moderate and severe asthma.

in primary analysis the association of aspiration with markersof disease severity was examined in univariate analysis using fisher exact test and in multivariate analysis using logistic regression.

elevated levels are associated with acute allograft rejection andor bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome.the use of pepsin as a surrogate for aspiration and therefore increased risk of rejection has led to its use as a means for justifying antireflux surgery in this niche population with clinical outcomes suggesting a protective role in terms of nonallogenic injury.it has long been postulated that there is a link between ger and asthma severity.despite this there has been a paucity of research specifically looking at airway pepsin as a biomarker of adverse clinical outcome and disease severity in the asthmatic lung.

results of this study demonstrated a median pepsin concentration of3.58 ngml range 2.53-15.78 ngml in the 58.9 of patients demonstrating detectable pepsin confirming that aspiration does occur in patients with asthma.

