similar to the previous experiments we again observed increased bacterial loads after 24 hours in lungs of antibiotic pre-treated mice compared to controls--indicating that the intestinal bacteria tar- geted by these two antibiotics are involved in the observed effects.gut microbiota disruption is associated with increased proinflammatory cytokine release during experimental melioidosishaving found an inoculum-dependent effect of antibiotic pre-treatment on bacterial growth both at the primary site of infection and at distant sites we next studied the impact of antibi- otic pre-treatment on local and systemic cytokine release in mice infected with 500 cfu b. pseudomallei.

values are in pgml and presented as median interquartile range.p0.05 control versus antibiotic treated.limited effect of antibiotic induced gut microbiota disruption on survival and organ damage.

lastly since a healthy microbiota is proposed to stimulate granulopoiesis     we studied neutrophil numbers in bone marrow and blood of naive control and antibiotic treated mice however we did not find any differences .altered lung transcriptome and impaired phagocytosis of b. pseudomallei by alveolar macrophages in gut microbiota disrupted miceto obtain insight into the mechanism by which the gut microbiota exerts its effects during pneumonia-induced melioidosis we investigated the effect of antibiotic microbiota disruption on lung transcriptomes.

naive antibiotic treated- and control mice were sacrificed after the two-day antibiotic washout period and lungs or alveolar macrophages were harvested.

naive antibiotic treated- and control mice were sacrificed after the two-day antibiotic washout period and bone marrow blood and peritoneal macrophages were harvested.

compared with controls alveolar macrophages derived from antibiotic pretreated mice showed a diminished capacity to phagocytose b. pseudomallei.

the importance of this subject is underscored by the notion that melioidosis has a notoriously protracted course for which cure can only be achieved through long-term antibiotic therapy.

we show that the intestinal microbiota changes significantly during melioidosis inde- pendent of antibiotic treatment.

secondly we show that antibiotic disruption of the intestinal microbiota is associated with a less effective innate immune defense against experimental b. pseudomallei infection.resultsprofound changes in gut microbiota composition during murine pneumonia-derived melioidosisto first obtain insight into the composition of the intestinal microbiota during melioidosis we inoculated mice intranasally with live b. pseudomallei to induce pneumonia-derived melioido- sis and collected fecal pellets at baseline t  0 and after 72 hours when all mice had symptoms of systemic infection.

the antibiotic treatment caused dramatic changes in the intestinal microbiota com- pared to untreated control mice with a marked reduction in the number of species .

relative to control mice antibiotic pre-treated mice displayed significantly increased bacterial loads in lung and liver 24 hours after infection .

using this higher infec- tious dose the observed increase in bacterial dissemination in antibiotic treated mice was also present at the early time-point following infection .

b before infection the fecal microbiota of control- and antibiotic treated mice was analysed by is-pro.

control and antibiotic pre-treated mice wereinoculated intranasally with 150 cfu c-e or 500 cfu f-h b. pseudomallei and sacrificed at the indicated time points.

white dots represent control mice grey dots antibiotic treated mice.

