harmsen  a department of gastroenterology and hepatology university of groningen university medical center groningen groningen the netherlandsb department of medical microbiology university of groningen university medical center groningen groningen the netherlandsa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 3 october 2016 received in revised form 16 december 2016accepted 2 january 2017available online 3 january 2017 handling editor david aronoffkeywordsanaerobic gut bacteria human intestinal epithelium co-culture systemhost-microbe interactions transwell co-culturehost-microbiota interaction hmi module human oxygen-bacteria anaerobic hoxban systemthe human gut-on-a-chip humix modela b s t r a c t the microbiota of the gut has many crucial functions in human health.

also a potential effect of the epithelial cells towards the bacteria cannot be studied in such a cell model system.models for gut bacteriaexamples of systems that are used to study the human gut microbiota in isolation are the tno dynamic in vitro model of the human large intestine tim-2 the simulator of the human intes- tinal microbial ecosystem shime the three stage continuous culture system the lacroix model and the fecal minibioreactor arrays mbras e. the tim-2 is designed to simulate the conditions found in the proximal colon .

however to truly mimic the mutual communication between human gut epithelial cells and the gut bacteria systems are needed that allow co-culturing of both in one system which are reviewed in section .models for gut epithelium and mucosaintestinal cell lines such as caco-2 ht-29 t-84 and dld-1 are frequently used as representatives of the human gastrointestinal epithelium however they originate from gastrointestinal tumors.

furthermore a large meta-analysis in 2014 showed that the abundance of f. prausnitzii is reduced in ibd patients when compared with healthy subjects .a 4th system that is relevant for host-microbe interaction studies is the human gut-on-a-chip see e. however in contrast to the previously described systems its use for co-culturing human cells with strict anaerobic gut bacteria has not been performed yet and it may be technically very challenging to maintain both aerobic and strict anaerobic conditions in this system.

co-culturing of caco- 2 cells with a formulation of probiotic bacteria vsl3 containing 6 bacterial strains originally isolated from the human gut micro- biome for 72 h induced transcriptome changes in caco-2 cells that more closely resemble the human ileum as compared to mono- cultured caco-2 cells in the gut-on-a-chip.

still several anaerobic bacterial-epithelial co-culture systems have recently been developed that mimic host-microbe interactions occurring in the human gut including 1 the transwell apical anaerobic model of the intestinal epithelial barrier 2 the host-microbiota interaction hmi module 3 the human oxygen-bacteria anaerobic hoxban system 4 the human gut-on-a-chip and 5 the humix model.

f. prausnitziinot describedyes bacteroides caccaemixed bacterial culturesnot describedyes fecal inoculum from healthy human in shimenot describedyes vsl3lgg and b. caccaecombination with other types of human cellsnot describednot describednot describedyes pbmcs endothelial cellsyes cd4th t cellsanalysis of epithelial barrier functionyes teer 3h-mannitol flux if-staining for tj proteinsyes bilateral diffusion of 4e20- 150 kda fitc dextranyes staining for tj proteinsyes teeryes humix-teer device and staining for tj protein occludinintervention studies diet medication etcnot describedyes s. cerevisiae fermentation productsyes prebiotics vitaminsyes probiotic vsl3 andantibiotic mixturelgg is used as a probiotic treatmentmodel of diseasenot describednot describedyes induction of inflammatorystate in epithelial cellsyes bacterial overgrowth and inflammationnot describedabbreviations caco-2 human colon epithelial cell line.

although many of the bacteria can survive oxygen by mechanisms such as sporulation oxygen-free conditions are required for the anaerobic bacteria to grow .

models using epithelial cells can be exposed to bacteria or bacterial extracts or products secreted by bacteria.

for such systems an additional barrier needs to be taken and that is to co- culture bacteria under anaerobic conditions while gut epithelialcells are provided with sufficient oxygen.models for gut host-microbe interactionsan in vitro gut host-microbe co-culture system would have many advantages for unraveling the direct role of gut bacteria in intestinal health provided that it is robust and truly simulates the gut ecosystem.

these transwell co-culture sys- tems seem to be particular useful to study the interaction between bacteria mucosal immune cells and intestinal epithelial cells under static conditions but are more frequently used under aerobic conditions e. recently a custom-made variant of such a transwell co-culture system was developed that allows the analysis of host-microbe interactions between oxygen-requiring caco- 2 cells and anaerobic f. prausnitzii bacteria for up to 8 h .

global gene expression analysis of caco-2 cells exposed for 4 h to either live or uv-killed f. prausnitzii revealed that live bacteria suppress cellular pathways involved in inflammatory response and immune cell trafficking much stronger than dead bacteria.

the humix modelhuman gut epithelium model cell typecaco-2caco-2caco-2 dld-1caco-2caco-2direct contact bacteria and host cellsyesno separated by mucus and microporous membraneyesyesno separated by nanoporous membranemucus layernoyes artificially addedyes artificially addedyes mucus productionyes mucin layergut epithelial cells grown in during co-culturingm199 th 10 fbsdmem th 10 fbsdmem th 10 fbsdmem th 20 fbsdmem th 20 fbsanaerobic bacteria grown in during co-culturinganaerobic m199 -fbsmixed carbon-source bacterial broth for shimeycfag anaerobic f. prausnitzii brothdmem th 20 fbsanoxic dmem mediumhost-microbe co-culture timeup to 8 hup to 48 h connected to shimeup to 36 h1-2 week24 hstatic or fluid flow shear stressstaticfluid flow6.5 ml min-1 14 3 dyne cm-2staticfluid flow 30 mlh-1 14 0.02 dyne cm-2flow rate 25 ml min -1simulation of peristalsisnononoyesnoco-culture with strict anaerobic bacteriayes i.e.

key factors to consider are 1 whether a strict anaerobic compartment for gut bacteria is required 2 whether single or complex mixtures of bacteria need to be analyzed 3 whether direct contact with bac- teria and gut epithelial cells is important 4 whether analysis of the barrier function such as teer is needed 5 whether effects on both gut epithelia as well as bacterial metabolism will be analyzed and maybe at least as important 6 whether the equipment and infrastructure is available to perform such experiments.

as most gut bacteria are obligate or facultative anaerobes studying their effect on oxygen-requiring human gut epithelial cells is technically challenging.

