intriguingly maternal obesity in mice was recently shown to alter social brain programming by altering gut microbiota in progeny 10. social deficits including the dopamine reward system and gut microbiota dysbiosis in offspring from high-fat diet-fed mothers was transferable to gf mice suggesting the potential for discovery of specific microbes with new functions that impact brain health including neurotransmitters that affect satiety.in summary the causative role of bacteria and early inflammation in the infant is not well studied.

in mice early exposure to proteobacteria is essential for driving the early inflammatory changes necessary for protection against excessive inflammatory and autoimmune gastrointestinal disorders later in life 6 this is sometimes referred to as a priming or trained immunity effect 7. the effects of a relative depletion of intestinal proteobacteria species in neonates of mothers with obesity could cause persistent alterations in immune development and increase an infant's risk of developing inflammatory and metabolic diseases see figure 1 but the literature on this topic is scarce.because immune development in the infant is highly dependent on triggers provided by the mother's microbiota 8 altered gut microbes in infants of mothers with obesity could cause developmental programming to a proinflammatory phenotype.

one thing that is becoming clear however is that the developing infant gut microbiome whether due to metabolism or cross-talk with the infant immune system may hold the key to understanding the early origins of multiple disease pathways.the causal role of the gut microbiota on obesity through microbial transfer experiments from humans to germ-free gf mice 3 and from healthy human donors to subjects with obesity 4 demonstrates that microbiota from a healthy donor can improve the body weight of a recipient with obesity albeit in the short-term.

given that early infant weight gain and inflammatory changes in early life can have lifelong consequences for metabolic health ongoing studies may provide clues to the effects of maternal obesity andor diet to prime the infant gut microbiota with possible functional effects of specific bacterial strains on metabolic and immunologic health.acknowledgmentssupport this work was supported by the national institutes of health-niddk r24 dk090964 the american diabetes association ada 1-13-gsk-13 and the colorado nih-nutrition and obesity research center norc p30 dk048520.referencesma j prince al bader d et al.

in non-human primates feeding a high-fat diet during pregnancy and lactation whether mothers were obese or not resulted in depleted proteobacteria and enriched firmicutes in juvenile 1-year-old offspring despite weaning to a normal low-fat chow diet 1. the observation that maternal diet establishes long-lasting effects on gut microbial composition in the offspring has profound clinical implications and emphasizes the need to target maternal diet during pregnancy and lactation rather than focusing on maternal weight in the prevention of a less diverse infant microbiota during the critical first year of life.

animal and human data strongly suggest that the composition of the neonatal gut microbiota is dependent both on maternal obesity and maternal diet during pregnancy and lactation 12 and on mode of delivery 2. the microbiome plays a major role in nutrition metabolism protection against pathogens resistance to infections and immune system development.however looking for a link between microbial transfer from mother to infant and disease pathways requires characterizing what is normal which is not so easy.

proteobacteria an early pioneering bacteria important for education of the newborn immune systems was depleted in infants from mothers with obesity delivered vaginally but not in infants from mothers with obesity delivered by cesarean section 2. proteobacteria were also lower in stool samples from 2- week-old infants born to normal-weight women who had excess 20 kg gestational weight gain je friedman unpublished results.whether reduced proteobacteria abundance is due to maternal diet changes in breast milk composition or other factors is not entirely clear.

recent evidence from our laboratory 5 and others 2 showed that infants of overweight mothers and mothers with obesity have an altered bacterial composition compared with vaginally-delivered infants born to normal- weight mothers as early as 2 days of life.

alterations in the intestinalfriedmanpage 3environment are directly involved in mucosal inflammation and disease autoimmunity and allergic disorders in childhood and adulthood 9. dysbiosis of the gut microbiota has been correlated with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld in children and adults however how the early life microbial composition influences hepatic fat accumulation and inflammation before the disease occurs is unclear.

human milk oligosaccharides also exert a powerful impact on the colonization and temporal development of the infant gut microbiota.

the maternal microbiota drives early postnatal innate immune development.

an altered gut microbial composition in infants born to mothers with obesity or on a high-fat diet could cause developmental programming to a proinflammatory phenotype.cesarean delivery or lack of breastfeeding which is more likely in mothers with obesity may also contribute to atopic diseases or obesity risks later in life.

due to the abundance of oxygen in the neonatal gut the microbiota in the first weeks of life is frequently dominated by the aerobic proteobacteria species e.g.

exposure of the fetal intestine to microbes possibly even through amniotic fluid is an important contributor to gut maturation and by extension to infant health.

alterations in human milk leptin and insulin are associated with early changes in the infant intestinal microbiome.

