hindawi publishing corporation mediators of inflammationvolume 2017 article id 9074601 9 pages review articlethe role of intestinal alkaline phosphatase in inflammatory disorders of gastrointestinal tractjan bilski1 agnieszka mazur-bialy1 dagmara wojcik2janina zahradnik-bilska3 bartosz brzozowski3 marcin magierowski2 tomasz mach3 katarzyna magierowska2 and tomasz brzozowski21department of ergonomics and exercise physiology faculty of health sciences jagiellonian university medical college cracow poland2department of physiology faculty of medicine jagiellonian university medical college cracow poland3gastroenterology and hepatology clinic the university hospital jagiellonian university medical college cracow polandcorrespondence should be addressed to tomasz brzozowski received 1 july 2016 accepted 26 january 2017 published 21 february 2017academic editor andrea e. errasticopyright c 2017 jan bilski et al.

bates et al.

in iap-knockout mice increased bacterial translocation to mesenteric lymph nodes was observed when the intestine was subjected to a ischemic injury malo et al.

for instance goldberg et al.

deficiencies in response mechanisms suchtable 1 characteristics of animal studies examining potential role of iap in experimental colitis.referencestudy typestudy outcomein mice with intestinal barrier dysfunction induced bygoldberg et al.

2008 iap-knockout mice c57bl6 backgroundischemia the iap-knockout mice had increased severity of intestinal inflammation and increased bacterial translocation as compared to wild-type mice.iap was given to rats by the oral or intrarectal route and have beneficial effects on experimental trinitrobenzenemart'inez-moya et al.

treatment with intrarectal iap was more effective than oral route.tuin et al.

2009 19sprague-dawleyorally administered iap caused a significant reduction of inflammation in rat model of dss -induced colitis in rats.in dss induced colitis the oral iap administrationbol-schoenmakers et al.

2010 25ramasamy et al.

several studies have examined the role of iap in experimental colitis table in iap-knockout iap-ko mice with ischemia-induced intestinal barrier dys- function the increased intestinal inflammation was observed possibly due to promotion of the bacterial translocationthrough intestinal barrier in these animals as compared to wild-type mice in another study mart'inez-moya et al.

more- over although the iap-ko mice did not exhibit spontaneous colitis they have been shown to be more susceptible to experimental colitis 54. tuin et al.

they found the loss in body weight being significantly less in iap-treated mice and accompanied with reduced colon damage as manifested in their study by a histological index of disease activity for example the crypt and goblet cell loss intestinal oedema and less severe neutrophils infiltration of intestinal wall 25.ramasamy et al.

they found that orally administered iap significantly attenuated inflammation intable 2 characteristics of studies examining the role of iap in human ibd.referencesampleoutcome cd 10 children 7 boys 3 girlsmolna'r et al.

2012 28uc 5 children3 boys 2 girlscontrol 10 children 5 boys 5 girlssignificantly decreased iap levels in inflamed mucosa in childrenwith ibd.cd 10 3 males7 femalestuin et al.

2009 19uc 14 9 males5 femalescontrol 14 8 males 6 femaleslukas et al.

