it is conceivable that this association may develop early in life as a result of biological processes catalyzed by the gut microbiota during infancy.key words enterotypes gut microbiota tci-125 temperament.introductionur bodies are colonized by trillions of bacteria collectively known as the microbiome which reside in many niches ofthe human body including the gut skin vagina and oral cavity 1. within the human body the gut microbiota protect against enter- opathogens extract nutrients and energy from the diet and con- tribute to normal immune function 2. together with their contributions to physical health gut microbiota also contribute to mental health and the communication system that integrates the brain and gastrointestinal system including the gut microbiome is known as the gut-brain axis gba 3. from the gba point of view the gut and brain systems communicate bidirectionally with each other and the neuroendocrine neuroimmune sympathetic and para- sympathetic branches of the autonomic nervous system and enteric nervous systems are key pathways in their communication 4psychological stress can alter gastrointestinal flora and the re- lease of norepinephrine into the gastrointestinal tract during stress might preferentially stimulate the growth of specific strains of bac- teria and affect their ability to adhere to the mucosa 3. animal studies have demonstrated that the presence of gut microbiota is necessary for normal brain development.

after this period the human gut microbiota be- come relatively stable 1112. some longitudinal studies suggest that one's gut microbiota structure is robust over time irrespective of host properties namely nationality sex or age 11314. the no- tion of the stability of the gut microbiota structure was extended and the following three enterotypes were proposed according to their dominant otus bacteroides prevotella and ruminococcus 1. considering the stability of temperament and gut microbiota struc- ture expressed as enterotypes it is possible that this association which may have developed early in life can be observed in healthy adults.

for maturation of temperament and the gut microbiota modulation of some proteins including synaptophysin and psd-95 stress hormones including corticosterone and neuronal circuits temperament and microbiota related to neurotransmitter activity by the gut microbiota may affect the brain and behavior 6. it was reported that psychotic disorders were associated with ns 41. in addition child temperament has been reported to be related to parent temperament 42. considering the gut microbiota-temperament interaction excessive temperament characteristics may be partly modulated during the malleable period of the gut microbiota.in this pilot study we showed that enterotype structure in healthy korean adults was consistent with those used in previous studies.

considering the relationship between the gut microbiota and brain development it is possible that temperament which refers to certain tendencies in re- action to emotional stimuli 7 is associated with the development of the gut microbiota.

in sum temperament characteristics as well as enterotypes were stable.together with the stability of enterotypes and temperament char- acteristics our study found that ns and rd scores in enterotype 1 were higher than those in enterotype 2. considering that there is a sensitive period in early life for the gut microbiota to affect the brain and behavior later in life 6 and that the hpa axis and neuro- transmitters including dopamine and serotonin play a role in deter- mining one's temperament 383637 our study results present the possibility that differences in stable temperaments between stable enterotypes may have formed during gut microbiota-temperament interactions in early life.even though it has been suggested that temperament is genet- ically innate 10 some studies on the genetics of temperament have shown conflicting results.

on the basis of the gba theory and our understanding of gut microbiota-brain development we pro- posed that some temperament differences between enterotypes may have formed in early life and that strong temperament tenden- cies which are known to be related to psychotic disorders may be alleviated during the period in which the gut microbiota is mallea- ble early in life.

 original articlethe association between temperament and microbiota in healthy individuals a pilot studyhojun kim kmd phd and young-jae park kmd phdabstractobjective the purpose of this study was to examine whether enterotypes in the gut microbiome could be determined by clustering va- lidity indexes and whether these enterotypes were associated with individual differences in temperament traits.methods sixty healthy korean participants 21 men 27.58.1years 39 women 34.514.3years were asked to answer 60 temperament questions novelty seeking harm avoidance reward dependence and persistence from the korean version of the temperament and char- acter inventory-125.

finally the differences in temperament between enterotypes were examined.results there was no significant effect of sex or age on gut microbiota and temperament scores.

9 proposed that children would differ in the structure of their gut microbiota on the basis of their temperamental characteristics and reported that the surgencyextraversion and effortful control temperaments as de- fined by the early childhood behavior questionnaire were associ- ated with diversity indexes and the abundance of otus including dialister rikenellaceae and ruminococcaceae.supplemental contentfrom the department of rehabilitation medicine of korean medicine dongguk university gyeonggi-do south korea kim department of diagnosis and biofunctional medicine college of korean medicine kyung hee university seoul south korea park and department of diagnosis and biofunctional medicine kyung hee university hospital at gangdong seoul south korea park.address correspondence and reprint requests to young-jae park kmd phd department of diagnosis and biofunctional medicine kyung hee uni- versity hospital at gangdong 149 sangil-dong gangdong-gu seoul 134-727 south korea.

e-mail received for publication january 13 2016 revision received january 16 2017. doi 10.1097psy.0000000000000459copyright c 2017 by the american psychosomatic society temperament and microbiota temperament which is generally accepted to be innate shows stability over a lifetime 10. marked changes in the gut microbiota occur early in life with an increase in diversity and stability over the first 2 or 3 years.

however little is known about the association between tem- perament and gut microbiota structure in healthy adults.

factor 2 consisted of bacteroidaceae and prevotellaceae meaningthat participants included in enterotype 1 tended to have higher ns scores and lower factor loadings for that factor that is a high abun- dance of bacteroidaceae and a low abundance of prevotellaceae.discussionto our knowledge our study is the first to examine the association of the gut microbiota with temperament characteristics in healthy adults.

however its relative abundance was low male  0.52 female  0.38. therefore it seems that the healthy korean adults' gut microbiota shows little differences be- tween sexes which is consistent with results of a previous study 1. in terms of age-related effects only bacteroidaceae showed a weak age-related effect.

in infants neurotransmitter activities and the hpa axis related to temperament are volatile and temperament may be devel- oping in response to gut microbiota-behavior interactions during the first 3 years.

nature 2012486207-14.lozupone ca stombaugh ji gordon ji jansson jk knight r. diversity stabil- ity and resilience of the human gut microbiota.

