nec has a high associated mortality and morbidity and is the most common serious gastro-intestinal complication of prematurity with an incidence of between 6 to 10 in babies b 1500 g birthweight .microbial diversity is characteristically reduced in infants at risk of developing nec  leading to the proposition that the inflammatory response of the gut to an abnormal pattern of early microbial colonisation may underlie the pathogenesis of nec abbreviations amr antimicrobial resistant nec necrotizing enterocolitis nicu neonatal intensive care unit.

research paperthe microbiome of infants recruited to a randomised placebo-controlled probiotic trial pips trialmichael millar  jo seale  melanie greenland  pollyanna hardy  edmund juszczak  mark wilks nicola panton  kate costeloe  william g. wade a department of infection barts health nhs trust london ukb national perinatal epidemiology unit university of oxford oxford ukc centre for paediatrics blizard institute barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry london ukd barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry queen mary university of london london uka r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 12 april 2017received in revised form 7 may 2017accepted 15 may 2017available online 17 may 2017keywords probiotic microbiome premature infantnecrotizing enterocolitisa b s t r a c t the microbial dysbiosis associated with necrotizing enterocolitis nec in preterm infants suggests that early ex- posure to probiotics may decrease and antibiotics may increase nec risk.

despite differences in microbial composition in response to antibiotics in the present study the findings from this microbiome analysis of a subset of infants included in the pips trial and the outcomes of the trial itself neither refute nor support the hypothesis that nec is a consequence of dysbiosis  .in conclusion the possibility that specific bacteria or microbial fac- tors play a protective role in determining the risk of nec remainstable 2statistical output for models fitting primary exposure of total number of days on antibi- otics from day 0 to day 14.modelnodds ratio 95 cip-valueagresti a.

additionally placebo controlled pro- biotic trials in infants have often omitted a comparison between the mi- crobial composition of the two groups and subsequently do not allow a full understanding of the impact if any of probiotic administration on the developing microbiome.the demonstration of intestinal dysbiosis following prolonged expo-sure to antimicrobials  and the associated in- creased risk of nec  in preterm infants indicates a potential role for antimicrobial therapy in the modification of the microbiome and subsequent pathogenesis of nec.

the characteristics of the mothers and the infants from whom these samples were collected including details on mode of delivery milk feeds antibiotic administration and the development of nec prior to sample collection were comparable by allocation status probiotic and placebo groups supplementary table 1. the character- istics of this subset align broadly with those of the population of infants recruited to the pips trial .

however administration of bifidobacterium breve strain bbg-001 to preterm infants did not affect nec incidence in a multicenter randomised controlled phase 3 trial pips trial.

in the light of previous reports demon- strating an effect of antimicrobials on the preterm gut the impact of early antibiotic treatment was also examined.materials and methodspips trial protocolthe pips trial was a multicentre randomised masked placebo-con- trolled trial involving 1315 infants born at b 31 weeks gestational age randomised to receive either enteral bifidobacterium breve strain bbg- 001 or placebo.

and reported that proteobacteria were relatively dominant components of the microbiome especially entero- bacteriaceae preceding the onset of nec in preterm infants in cases of nec compared with controls.

3. box plots showing the richness sobs and diversity invsimpson of the microbiota in subjects treated with placebo n  48 or probiotic n  40 and colonised by the probiotic n 64 or not n  24. upper and lower edges of the boxes are the first and third quartiles the line inside the box is the second quartile median individual dots are outliers.microbiome from group b compared to groups a and c decreased by 17 for every one day increase in total number of days on antibiotics be- tween days 0 and 14. this increased to 19 when adjusted for mode of delivery nec and birthweight per 100 g. days on antibiotics was highly statistically significant in all models.discussionthe microbiome of the gut of preterm infants has consistently been shown to have higher proportions of proteobacteria compared to those of full term infants .

published by elsevier b.v. this is an open access article under the cc by-nc-nd license .is likely to depend on the antimicrobial used although in the absence of robust trials it is unclear as to which antimicrobials confer the greatest nec risk in preterm infants.we have previously reported the results of a multicentre randomised placebo-controlled trial pips trial examining the impact of early administration of bifidobacterium breve strain bbg-001 to 1315 babies born before 31 weeks of gestation and recruited within 48 h of birth .

the final models for both comparisons adjusted for mode of delivery cae- sarean section or vaginal nec and birthweight per 100 g. the results for models fitting the primary exposure of total number of days on an- tibiotics from day 0 to day 14 are shown in .the odds of a baby being colonised by a microbiome from group b compared to group c decreased by 16 for every one day increase in the total number of days on antibiotics between days 0 and 14. this in- creased to 18 when adjusted for mode of delivery nec and birthweight per 100 g. the odds of a baby being colonised by afig.

the early pat- tern of development of the microbiome in infants nursed in intensive care has been linked with serious consequences including the develop- ment of neonatal necrotising enterocolitis nec  .

the dem- onstration that probiotics reduce the risk of severe nec in preterm infants supports this view although such a reduction appears depen- dent on the infant's birthweight and the bacterial strain used  .

reported a relative abundance of gammaproteobacteria and relative paucity of negativicutes includes veillonella spp preceding nec in very low birthweight infants.

infants were recruited between july 2010 and july 2013. details of the trial have been published .

