the 16s rrna copy number does not differ significantly between als patients and healthy controls hcs p 14 0.91. b als patients and hcs differ in numbers of observed otus p 14 0.048. c analysis of the alpha diversity using simpson's index of diversity p 14 0.199 shows no differences between als patients and hcs.

between october 2015 and september 2016 feces from 25 als patients 3 familial with a c9orf72 mutation 2 and an unknown genetic mutation 1 as wellas 22 sporadic patients and 32 age- and gender-matched hcs were collected and immediately frozen and stored at 80 0c until anal- ysis according to standard operating procedures  .

consistent with the similarity in abundance of taxa the picrust-predicted meta- genomes did not significantly differ between als patients and hcs and supplementary table 4.discussionin this study we employed 16s rrna gene sequencing to obtain a comprehensive profile of the gut microbiota in als patients and matched control individuals.

we purposely restricted our study to als patients with still high functional status since various complicating condi- tions from which als patients suffer at later stages are known to influence the composition of the gut microbiota e.g.

we compared the fecal microbiota of 25 als patients with 32 age- and gender-matched healthy persons using 16s rrna gene sequencing analysis.

confounding factors and secondary disease effects on the microbiome were minimized by selection of patients without dysphagia gastrostomy noninvasive ventilation or reduced body mass index.

signif- icant differences between als patients and healthy controls were only observed with regard to the overall number of microbial species operational taxonomic units and in the abundance of uncultured rumino- coccaceae.

conclusively als patients do not exhibit a substantial alteration of the gut microbiota composition.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.introductionamong the hallmarks accompanying the neurodegenerative dis- ease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis als are cytoplasmic aggregates of misfolded tdp-43 protein  systemic changes of the immune system  as well as neuroinflammation in the cns .

furthermore energy dys- metabolism and profound weight loss are frequently observed non- motor symptoms of als patients which are associated with a more aggressive clinical disease course .

the composition of the fecal microbiota is altered in patients with distinct brain disorders including multiple sclerosis  parkinson's disease pd  and stroke .

1. the diversity of the intestinal microbiota is not substantially altered in als patients.

d principal coordinate analysis of the bray-curtis dissimilarity matrix shows no significant differences in the beta diversity between als patients and hcs r2 14 0.02 p 14 0.42. abbreviations als amyotrophic lateral sclerosis otus operational taxonomic units pcr polymerase chain reaction.manner as in pd and alzheimer's disease.

given its wide impact on patho-physiologic host processes the fecal microbiota deserves analysis in als patients.

consequently our study was designed to investigate whether the gut microbiota is altered in als by comparing the fecal microbiota in als patients to that of age- and gender-matched healthy controls hcs.methodspatientsthe study was approved by the ethical committee of ulm uni- versity.

25 als patients 2 familial 23 sporadic were diagnosed according to the revised el escorial criteria and 32 hcs matched for genderand agewereincluded inthe study.

