hepaticus causes chronic intestinal inflammation resembling features of human ibd 50. in another study h. hepaticus trig- gered colitis in specific-pathogen-free il10-- mice through an ilinterleukin-12- and interferon-g-dependent mechanism 51. the same authors later demonstrated that h. hepaticus induces wild-type regulatory t cells to produce il-10 which suppress interferon-g production thus preventing bacteria-induced colitis 47. nevertheless others found that specific-pathogen-free il10-- mice had similar colitis activity as compared to wild-type animals in the h. hepaticus model therefore questioning the predominant role of this bacterium in experimental ibd 48.escherichia coli is the predominant non-pathogenic facultative flora in the human intestine 52. the fact that commensals cancause intestinal inflammation is strengthened by the observation that some species may acquire traits of pathogenicity including the potential to adhere to the intestinal epithelium or to express toxins as in the case of adherentinvasive e. coli 52. it has been demon- strated that adherentinvasive e. coli which is absent in healthy in- dividuals can be abundantly found in the inflamed ileal mucosa of cd patients where it causes intestinal inflammation by disrupting the intestinal barrier 53. such bacteria might infect macrophages without killing them a mechanism by which subsequent chronic stimulation of immune cells might be triggered 49. nevertheless as with most of the facultative pathogen strains there is a require- ment for genetic or immune-related predispositions of the host in order for colitis to develop.in another study atg16l1 mutant mice were highly susceptible to norovirus infection which was dependent on commensals.

it is now largely accepted that uncontrolled immune responses against com- mensals or their products are critically involved in ibd pathophys- iology 12 13. in contrast alterations in the composition of mi- crobiota have been discussed as causative agents in ibd 14 15. the major implication of the microbiota in this context is high- lighted by the observation that inflammation is ameliorated or even absent in the absence of bacteria in different models of ibd 12 13.in this review we discuss the role of intestinal microbiota in visceral medicine in the context of gut health and intestinal inflam- mation and highlight some of the strategies aiming to functionally modulate microbiota as a new treatment frontier for visceral health.essential role of the intestinal microbiome in visceral homeostasisalthough the structural and functional complexity of different ecosystems established within the gastrointestinal tract is daunting it has become evident over recent years that deciphering interac- tions between the microbiome and the intestinal immune system holds great promise for understanding homeostasis of the entire body.

ammonia phenols have the potential to initiate inflammation dna damage and colorectal cancer pro- gression 32. recognition of the carbohydrate fermentation as a main homeostatic resort of gut microbiota provides the scientific basis for improving gut health by diet 18 30. these observations underline the importance of prioritizing the dietary intake of plant- based foods as compared to protein-rich animal products in order to prevent disease 18 19.dysbiosis and its relation with the development of intestinal bowel disease and obesitymost of the gut microbiota resides in the large intestine and the vast majority 98-99 of the 'healthy' gut flora is accounted for by four phyla actinobacteria bacteroidetes firmicutes and proteo- bacteria.

many therapeutic strategies focusing on the modulation of the microbiota have been proposed re- cently but future research including prospective human studies and gnotobiotic mouse models are still needed to evaluate the contribution and potential therapeutic value of individual bacteria to human health.c 2017 s. karger gmbh freiburgintroductionthe human gut flora which is contained within the lumen of the gastrointestinal tract is notoriously known to represent one of the most complex ecosystems on earth harboring a plethora of viral bacterial fungal protozoan and archaeal species which altogether represent the intestinal microbiome 1-3. studying the 'human microbial organ' in homeostasis and disease states revealed the ex- istence of a strong interaction between the intestinal mucosa and the microbiota.

the upcoming decade holds great promise in uncovering why specific strains are localized to different segments of the gut and how microbiota supports visceral homeostasis 8.different layers of passive and active defense including the physical integrity of the intestinal epithelial cell layer the mucus antimicrobial peptides glycoproteins and secretory immunoglob- ulin a protect viscera from the potentially aggressive microbial content of the intestinal lumen.

1. schematic representation of the interactions between the intestinal microbiota and the gut immune system during a homeostasis b pathology and c res- titution of inflammation.future perspectivesthe last decade has experienced an explosive interest in analyz- ing the composition of the intestinal microbiome and its interac- tions with the host.

whether such changes are a cause or a consequence of the disease remains hotly debated 7 36. in this context bacterial diversity is significantly reduced in cd patients with active inflam- mation but also during remission phases as compared with healthy controls such data suggested that dysbiosis may be a causative factor of the inflammation in cd 37. this view is also sustained by animal studies showing that germ-free animals are protected from experi- mentally induced intestinal inflammation 13 15. in ibd actino- bacteria and proteobacteria are increased whereas bacteroidetes and firmicutes are decreased which results in major shifts in oxidative stress pathways as well as decreased carbohydrate metabolism and amino acid biosynthesis 38-40. very recently it has been described that a consortium of bacteria that can be triggered by low-fiber diet promotes expansion and activity of colonic mucus-degrading bacte- ria and that fiber-deprived gut microbiota promotes aggressive colitis by an enteric pathogen 30. collectively these studies indicate that the microbial composition can have a major impact on immune ho- meostasis in the gut.

by mimicking the in vivo niche this technique provides unprecedented insights into growth requirements and their immunostimulatory po- tential opening new avenues for investigating the microbial-host interactions at the molecular levels 57. in contrast organotypic culture of intestinal crypts that has been established and refined over the past decade the so-called organoids 58 currently provides a great tool for addressing molecular mechanisms governing intestinal epithelial cell physiology.

importantly when mice were transferred to con- ventional conditions inflammation ensued providing a direct causative implication of the microbiota in disease under these ex- perimental settings 12 15 62-64.this idea for a causative role of the microbiota in intestinal in- flammation was further extended and consolidated by microbiota transfer experiments 65. in that study microbiota from colitis- bearing animals was shown to induce intestinal inflammation in healthy tbet-- x rag2-- mice.

this in turn could be followed by the uncontrolled activation of lamina propria immune cells which amplifies local immune responses and induces even more epithelial cell death perpetuating a vicious cycle.as another example mice lacking nf-kb essential modulatorspecifically in epithelial cells presented spontaneous tnf-a-driven apoptosis of intestinal epithelial cells which resulted in altered bar- rier function and microbial-induced severe pancolitis 81. extend- ing these studies it has been recently shown that the nf-kb essen- tial modulator gene prevents intestinal inflammation by inhibiting receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 kinase activity-mediated epi- thelial cell death suggesting that inhibition of this kinase could be used in treating patients with nf-kb essential modulator gene mu- tations 82.another single nucleotide polymorphism conferring increased susceptibility to cd is the autophagy gene atg16l1 71. defective autophagy has been associated with impaired paneth cell function in both mice and humans 83. the authors of this study made the un- expected observation of a gain of function specific to atg16l1-defi- cient paneth cells which led to various modifications in the secretory functions that resulted in increased peroxisome signaling and lipid metabolism which promoted inflammation.

clinical therapeutic reviewvisc med 201733153-162 doi 10.1159000470892published online april 7 2017the microbiome in visceral medicine inflammatory bowel disease obesity and beyondmircea t. chiriacmousumi mahapatromarkus f. neurathchristoph beckerdepartment of medicine 1 university hospital erlangen university of erlangen-nuremberg erlangen germanykeywordsanimal colitis models  intestinal inflammation  gut microbiota  inflammatory bowel disease  fecal microbiota transplantationsummaryit has become increasingly evident over the past two decades that the microbiota plays a nurturing role in the development of the immune system.

in healthy individuals the bacterial translo- cation is blocked by a single layer of highly specialized intestinal epithelial cells which forms a strong barrier that lines the gut wall.

ge- netic predisposition environmental factors intestinal microbiota and overreacting immune responses to gut microbiota are cur- rently considered the four pillars of ibd pathogenesis.

hyperglycemia hypertriglyceridemia dyslipidemia hypertension and obesity-related pathologies such as type 2 diabetes 42 43. like for ibd the pathogenesis of obesity has been linked with phylum-level changes in the intestinal micro- biota as well as a reduced diversity in gut bacterial composition 28. initial results indicated that an increase in the abundance of firmicutes was associated with diet-induced obesity 44 moreo- ver the firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio was found to positively cor- relate with the obese phenotype in mice independently of the diet 16. one of the major advances in our understanding of the inter- actions between microbiota and obesity stems from ingenuous fecal microbiota transfer experiments between humans and mice45.

gut 201665330-339.tang wh wang z levison bs koeth ra britt eb fu x wu y hazen sl intestinal microbial metabo- lism of phosphatidylcholine and cardiovascular risk.

