thus a certain functional redundancy exists across partitioning systems .with respect to the proma plasmid group insertions of accessory genes have been empirically observed to occur ex- actly in the para region exemplified by the luxab-tet gene cassette inserted into plasmid pipo2 yielding plasmid pipo2t  mercury resistance genes found on plasmid psb102  and heavy metal response genes on plasmid pmol98 .

c. the mycosphere-derived sequence revealed high similarity with a putative dehydrogenase gene thioredoxinlike from an uncultured bacterium band 8. interestingly the bulk soil- derived sequences were highly affiliated with an esterase- encoding gene gene aes band 9 and a gene encoding a subunit of an endo-14-beta-xylanase gene xyna band 10. interestingly both genes esterase and xylanase are as- sociated with the degradation of organic matter derived from plants lignocellulose which is routinely found in high con- centrations in soils .

with respect to partitioning parb appears to be key it is found on all plasmids of the proma group and the protein encoded by this gene is important for the proper formation of the partitioning complex.the goal of this study was to explore the proma plasmid para gene region as a potential insertional hotspot for mobi- lized genes.

probably environmental characteristics drive and select the respective genes in their genetic and host context.identification of para gene insertions obtained from soil dnarepresentative dominant bands considering the cluster anal- ysis for each habitat were excised from gel reamplified cloned and sequenced in order to assess the nature of the para gene insertions see fig.

this sequence affiliated with gene regions found in betaproteobacteria revealed high iden- tity with that of the ralstonia solanacearum narg partial gene which encodes the alpha subunit of nitrate reductase an enzyme involved in the conversion of nitrate into nitrite.

the methodology developed in this work was effec- tive sensitive and practical allowing detection of mobilized genes between microorganisms.keywords horizontal gene transfer .

expectedly these sequences were affiliated to those of alphaproteobacteria band 9 and gammaproteobacteria band 10 as detected with complete genes see table .in conclusion the extent to which horizontally acting gene transfer agents provide adaptive value to members of natural microbiomes is an understudied area of research.

the sensitivity of the systems was revealed by the fact that 107105 and 103 copies of the plasmid when used as the target all yielded clear prod- ucts data not shown.amplification of para sequences from environmental samplesas the primer pair revealed specificity for para and efficiently amplified the targets we applied them to en- vironmental microbiome dnas that had previously shown good amplification with 16s rrna gene primers fig.

379bedhomme s pantoja dp bravo g 2017 plasmid and clonal interference during post horizontal gene transfer evolution.

furthermore such habitats could be differentiated based on patterns of para-inserted genes and the genes carried by these plasmids.

thus a suite of dioxygenase-related genes and transposase elements were found in oil-affected mangroves whereas genes involved in nitrogen and carbon cycling were detected in salt marsh and soils.

this bhr plasmid group current- ly includes six members namely plasmids pipo2  pmol98  psb102  pter331  pxyl184pmrad02  and psfa231 .all of these plasmids share next to systems for repli- cation and horizontal transfer a par partitioning system consisting of the para parb and pars genes.

in other plasmids the region was deleted without effects on the plasmid copy number con- trol system or plasmid functioning .

351566-1571li x top em wang y brown cj yao f yang s jiang y li h 2015 the broad- host-range plasmid psfa231 isolated from petroleum-contaminated sediment represents a new member of the proma plasmid family.

plasmid 9137-41nordstrom k molina s aagaard-hansen h 1980 partitioning of plasmid r1 in escherichia coli ii incompatibility properties of the partitioning system.

