to uncover differences in microbiota composition that explain the variable severity of neutrophil accumulation in sox10 mutants we collected intestinal neutrophil response data for the same individuals from which we iso- lated microbial dna and grouped samples as wt sox10- low intestinal neutrophil response 0-8 or sox10- high intestinal neutrophil response of greater than or equal to 22 these groups include the top 26 and the bottom 29 respectively .

notably sox10 mutants exhibited a much greater variation in intestinal neutrophil accumulation 0-18n  30 compared to wt siblings 0-7 n  31 some sox10 mutants had intestinal neutrophil levels similar to wts whereas others had significantly elevated neutrophil populations.

when we compared sox10 mutants that fell in the bottom half of neutrophil response sox10- low or in the top half of neutrophil response sox10- high to wts we found that all sox10 mutants regardless of neutrophil level carried significantly higher bacte- rial loads than wts .

coefficients of regression analysis of escherichia vibrio and intestinal neutrophil number.doi10.1371journal.pbio.2000689.t001to confirm the functional contribution of vibrio to the increased neutrophil responses in sox10- we first added vibrio z20 to cv sox10 mutants at 4 dpf and assayed neutrophil num- bers at 6 dpf.

the increased neutrophil response in sox10 mutants also depends on this pathway as inhibiting expression of the tnf receptor using an antisense morpholino  abolished the increased neutrophil response .

this larger inoculum did not induce more intestinal inflammation  which indicates that the microbial community assembled in sox10- hosts is functionally distinct from wt micro- biota and is sufficient to induce inflammation in fish with a normal functional ens.bacterial overgrowth does not explain increased intestinal neutrophil responsesox10 mutants exhibit a wide range of intestinal neutrophil populations figs and  as well as variation in bacterial load .

consistent with the significantly elevated intestinal neutrophil response in these samples saa is known to mediate intestinal neutrophil behavior stimulated by microbes .

collectively our results suggest that a pro-inflammatory compositional change occurs in the microbial community of a subset of sox10 mutants.changes in the abundance of two dominant microbial genera drive intestinal neutrophil accumulationto address the possibility of a pro-inflammatory compositional change in the sox10- micro- biota we profiled microbial communities by performing 16s rrna gene sequencing onintestinal microbiota are necessary and sufficient to induce increased intestinal neutrophil accumulation in sox10 mutants.

by standard met- rics of community variability non-metric multidimensional scaling of canberra distances richness faith's phylogenetic diversity unweighted unifrac these three groups were not sig- nificantly different  which indicates that these communities are largely made up of the same microbes and community differences driving neutrophil differences are perhaps due to changes in minor members .we next asked whether the relative abundance of any bacterial operational taxonomic units otus correlated with intestinal neutrophil number across all individuals surveyed in the study.

simi- larly in the current study the log10relative abundance of vibrio was significantly positively correlated with neutrophil number  and we also observed that the log10relative abun- dance of escherichia was negatively correlated with intestinal neutrophil accumulation although the amount of variation explained was low .

consistent with this predic- tion we found that addition of escherichia coli hs a commensal escherichia strain isolated from a healthy human adult  that is closely related to escherichia otus in cv fish  can colonize the zebrafish intestine  reducing neutrophil numbers in cv sox10 mutants  and maintaining gf levels of intestinal neutrophil accumulation in monoas- sociation .

wild type sox10 low neutrophil and sox10 high neutrophil intestinal microbial communities are not different based on community wide metrics.

a bacterial communi- ties in wild type wt black closed circles sox10- low neutrophil red closed circles and sox10- high neutrophil red open circles do not differ based on canberra distances as shown in a nmds analysis.

b-d wt sox10- low neutrophil and sox10- high neutrophil intestinal microbiota are not different in the number of otus present in their communities b in phy- logenic diversity based on faith's pd alpha diversity metric c and by pairwise comparisons of unweighted unifrac distances d. box plots represent the median and interquartile range whiskers represent the 5-95 percentile n  30 per group collected from three independent experiments.

n  30. b the ability of exogenously added bacteria to alter the intestinal neutrophil response depended on the intestinal neutrophil response in the control which is a result of the microbial commu- nity assembled.

