the combination of both 1 h. pylori and 2 other commensal organisms comprises the gastric microbiome.helicobacter pylorinearly half of the world population are carriers of h. pylori.

although culture techniques are considered a gold standard for the diagnosis of h. pylori they have several significant limitations 1 low sensitivity 2 high expense and 3 slow growth in culture h. pylori is a fastidious organism.

it has been revealed that h. pylori-specific region of the 16s ribosomal rna sequence is unique for most h. pylori strains and therefore can be used for qualitative and quantitative assessment of the presence of h. pylori in biological specimens.

relationship between h. pylori and other commensal organismsintuitively one can assume that the gastric microbiome pop- ulation should have an impact on the course of diseases caused by h. pylori.

several factors have been suggested that may account for shifts in the gastric microbiome with h. pylori infection  increased gastric ph secondary to long-term h. pylori infection favors the col- onization of transient bacteria  ammonia and bicarbonate produced as a result of urease activity may be used as sub- strates for other bacteria and  h. pylori-induced decreased gastric motility.

curr gastroenterol rep 2017 19 42 doi 10.1007s11894-017-0577-6the gastric and intestinal microbiome role of proton pump inhibitorsartem minalyan1  lilit gabrielyan12  david scott3  jonathan jacobs145 joseph r. pisegna16published online 22 july 2017 springer sciencebusiness media llc outside the usa 2017abstractpurpose of review the discovery of helicobacter pylori and other organisms colonizing the stomach and the intestines has shed some light on the importance of microbiome in maintaining overall health and developing pathological conditions when al- terations in biodiversity are present.

the use of ppis fa- vors relative streptococcal abundance irrespective of h. pylori status and may explain the persistence of dyspeptic symptoms in patients on ppi therapy.

the presence of h. pylori infection pre- dominantly affecting the gastric corpus can significantly affect the activity of ppi.

therefore patients with h. pylori infec- tion are less likely to develop nocturnal gastric acid break- through.

gastric microbiomeup until the discovery of h. pylori in 1982 by marshall and warren the acidic environment of the stomach was considered sterile.

in fact that discovery not only helped treat patientswith various conditions where h. pylori is considered a causative agent but also shed some light on the possibility that other bac- teria reside in the stomach.

observed a dramatic decline in the prevalence of h. pylori in an endoscopy-referral population over a 10-year period from 65.8 down to 6.8.  however in developing countriesh.

pylori is still very common with its prevalence hitting 80 in some countries.

pylori is able to persist in the gastric niche.

interestingly the stomach is the only known habitat for h. pylori.

