news  analysismedical news  perspectives.......p1713the lung microbiome key to respiratory illslab reports....................................p1715spider venom peptide may protect neurons following strokeimmunotherapy targets several different pediatric brain tumorscell marker may help identify latent hiv reservoirsnews from the food and drug administration ..............................p1716immunotherapy for rare skin cancer new addition to parkinson therapy countering public health threatsmedical news  perspectivesthe lung microbiome key to respiratory illsjeff lyonhe word microbiome has become a catch term only in the past decade but it refers to something as old ashumanity itself the diverse and unimagin- ably vast population of microorganisms that share our bodies.

medicine has succeeded in mapping much of the gut microbiome but only recently has advanced technology enabled researchers to identify and study the inhabitants of the hu- man respiratory system and possibly use thisjack gilbert phdsteve white mdinformation to diagnose and treat respira- tory disease.recently jama discussed this re- search and its potential clinical applica- tions with 2 experts on the front lines jack gilbert phd a microbial ecologist at the university of chicago and director of its new microbiome center--one of many pop- ping up around the country--and steve white md professor of medicine at the uni- versity of chicago who studies asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd.

it's much smaller than the gut microbiome but it's a unique microbiome that may influence health and disease.jama what might disrupt the airway micro- biome leading to illness you hear the word dysbiosis a lot in reference to such disruption.

the following is an edited version of that conversation.jama for some time the focus has been on the gut microbiome.

when did the realiza- tion hit that the lung microbiome is a factor in respiratory pathologydr white it was thought some years back that the lung was a sterile organ and that normally there were hardly any bacte- ria in it and that only when you have per- turbations of the lung as in cystic fibrosisemphysema bronchiectasis or pneumonia would the lungs become infected.

more recently it's been recognized that the nor- mal lung has its own microbiome.

dr gilbert dysbiosis is a disassociation of the equilibrium in a microbiome.

the factors involved might range from antibiotics which would obvi- ously cause a significant disruption to immune disorders since the immune sys- tem is the interface between the bacterial populations--the microbiome--and the human body.

diet can affect the microbiome.

when we talk about the microbiome we're talking about many different things not just bacteria.jama may 2 2017 volume 317 number 171713news  analysisjama virusesdr gilbert absolutely.

so if we understood how the bacteria turned on the parts of host defense that we really don't want turned on maybe we don't have to go after bacteria a directly maybe we could change bacteria b or bacteria c and they would change bacteria a for us to tell it to be quiet.dr gilbert we have 2 ways of using the microbiome most effectively.

an inter- esting question is whether the airway microbiome then sends signals back to the gut that will be changing the gut over time.jama do you foresee a time when we will all undergo microbiotic profilingdr gilbert absolutely.

