many microbiome studies including large-scale micro- biome efforts of the national institutes of health's com- mon fund human microbiome project and metahit have most often focused on bacteria with fewer efforts focused on examining human fungi.fungi comprise a smaller proportion of human microbial sequences as compared with bacteria but remain an important com- ponent of the human microbiome.fungi have been studied for well over a century with research ranging from the role of fungi in human diseases to the influence of fungi on bacterial growth and from the interactions between fungi and host immunity to the biologic activi- ties of fungal metabolic products.

the emergence of genomic methods to study fungi has the potential to expand our understanding of the contributions of human fungi to health and disease.

the lung comes into contact with environmental fungi routinely during respiration and oral fungi may be aspirated into the lungs.

far fewer studies have examined the myco- biome of the gut in health and disease or investigated its functional impact on the host.while bacteria outnum- ber fungi in the gut there are a significant number of fungal taxa in the gut and the majority of them can only be detected with non-culture-based techniques.

because fungi can trigger both the innate and adaptive immune systems it is hypothesized that fungal dysbiosis may be a component of chronic lung diseases such as asthma cystic fibrosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd.

some oral cultivation studies have isolated non-candida fungal organisms particularly in immunosuppressed patients but have questioned whether these fungi result from potential environmental sources or contamination.

implementation of sequencing methods has led to greater understanding of the complexity of these vaginal fungal communities.these mycobiome studies have shown that candida can be found in up to 70 of sam- ples and that the vaginal fungal diversity has been under- estimated.

additional investigations of fungal communities in these diseases as well as in immunodeficiency syndromes have the potential to expand our understanding of the host-microbial interactions.the majority of culture-based oral fungal research has often focused on candida and oral candidiasis.

3 310-312editorialthe emerging importance and challenges of the human mycobiomeheidi h. kongand alison morrisadermatology branch center for cancer research national cancer institute national institutes of health bethesda md usa bcenter formedicine and the microbiome department of medicine university of pittsburgh school of medicine pittsburgh pa usaarticle history received 4 january 2017 accepted 4 january 2017 keywords fungi human microbiome mycobiome sequencingadvances in genomics have significantly expanded our ability to examine human microbes.

although establishment of the mycobiome of the gut is not as well-studied as the bacterial microbiome it appears that the first fungi are transmitted by the mother.

the most common fungi in the normal lung are the family davi- diellaceae and the genera cladosporium eurotium peni- cillium and aspergillus but composition is highly variable between individuals.

interactions between vaginal bacteria and fungi may also play a role in maintaining balance in the vaginal microbial ecosys- tem.

understanding the physical physiologic and immunological interactions as well as metabolites and small molecules produced by microbial communities will be important in shedding light on vaginal health and dis- ease and may result in therapeutic advances.cultivation studies have previously established the presence of skin fungi in healthy individuals and patients with skin diseases.

the roles of fungi in skin diseases have been based primarily on culture studies.

the mycobiome field needs expansion of meth- odologic studies sequenced isolates curated reference databases and mechanistic studies including research on the interactions of fungi with bacteria and viruses.

