the interaction and bal- ance of these molecules determine whether the tissue response remains stable or leads to destruction and dis- ease progression 11. gingival crevic- ular fluid an inflammatory exudate or transudate collected from the gingival crevice contains components of host- derived inflammatory markers 12. thus gingival crevicular fluid analysis appears a non-invasive approach to investigate site-specific inflammatory responses and assess presence of vari- ous inflammatory markers 13. in smokers site-specific tissue responses are clinically expressed by a specific attachment loss profile 14. however site-specific mapping of inflammatory and bone-remodeling markers in smokers with chronic periodontitis reports conflicting results 15. the majority of studies have reporteddecreased local expression of some proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines in smokers 16-18 indi- cating an immunosuppressant effect of smoking that may increase suscep- tibility to periodontitis.

conversely elevated expressions of chemokines and proinflammatory cytokines have also been reported in smokers 1920. for bone remodeling decreased gingival crevicular fluid levels of osteoprotegerin opg have been demonstrated following  20 years of smoking 21. as opg blocks activa- tion of receptor activator for nuclear factor kappa-b ligand rankl the ranklopg ratio a surrogate mar- ker for periodontal bone homeostasis might increase in smokers and induce bone loss.compromised healing following periodontal therapy in smokers is well documented 22-24 and impaired site-specific treatment outcomes to some extent may be explained by altered inflammatory responses 25. a few prospective studies have inves- tigated the relationship between smoking and levels of proinflamma- tory markers chemokines and bone markers in gingival crevicular fluid following periodontal therapy.

further non-pooled samples and an objective validation of smok- ing status reduced the number of confounding factors in the compar- isons of gingival crevicular fluid markers following periodontal ther- apy in smokers and non-smokers and may to some extent weight up for the relatively low sample size.the results herein confirmed the study hypothesis by a suppressed inflammatory reaction presented as reduced expression of gingival crevic- ular fluid markers in heavy smokers particularly for proinflammatory markers and chemokines.

a t0 vs. t1 b t1 vs. t2 c t0 vs. t2.table 3. a mean - sem amount gingival crevicular fluid markers per site pg30 s and b mean - sem concentration gingival crevicular fluid markers per site pgml in smokers and non-smokers at t0 t1 and t2red complex-positive sites n  49 23 smokers26 non-smokers and red complex-negative sites n  101 52 smokers49 non-smokers.

at t0 smoking signifi- cantly reduced the effect size for proinflammatory markers p  0.001 chemokines p  0.007 and growth factors p  0.003 at t1 for opg p  0.003 and at t2 for proinflam- matory markers p  0.019 and chemokines p  0.005.the subgroups were tested for overall association with smoking sta- tus after stratification by dental pla- que presentabsent or red complex microbial species  105 105 table 4. the numbers of tested sites in the analysis are not tabulated pla- que-positive sites n  96 45 smokers 51 non-smokers plaque-negative sites n  54 30 smokers24 non-smokerstable 2. collection sitea characteristics at t0 t1 and t2 presented as mean - sd and percentage number stratified by smoking statusspeciesc 105 orange complex speciesc92 2396 240.552 76 1984 210.480 60 15c60 15c1.000 105 aa speciesc24 652 130.041 52 1344 11a0.571 24 6b32 80.529acollection site the deepest periodontal pocket in each patient at t0.bchi-squared test.ctwo-sample independent t-test.aa aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans gcf gingival crevicular fluid.letters a b and c in superscript to the mean values denotes a significant difference p  0.05 over time for that specific clinical and microbiological variable in smokers and in non-smokers.

keystone pathogens other than p. gingivalis may be determined for host response in smokers and parvimonas mirca is considered a key- stone pathogen associated with deep pockets in smokers 755. neverthe- less the majority of immune responses to periopathogens are known to occur locally within the periodontal tissues in gingival crevic- ular fluid and between cells conju- gated to another rather than to systemic responses 5657. however in smokers the amounts of inflamma- tory markers appeared to be modu- lated not only by site-specific factors as presence of plaque and a high number of red complex species but also by the complex systemic influence of cigarette smoke.in general expressed markers in gingival crevicular fluid using multi- plex assays and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays are detected with similar trends but not directly comparable due to methodological variations 58 varying amounts ofmarkers and measurements at differ- ent scales.

thus the pre-study hypothesis was accepted p  0.001 indicating that the attempt to blind the examiner with regard to smoking status was unsuccessful.gingival crevicular fluid sampling and protein extractiongingival crevicular fluid samples were collected using periopaper strips periopaper gingival fluid col- lection strips oraflow inc. smith- town ny usa.

this study compares gingival crevicular fluid levels of inflammatory and bone remodeling markers in heavy smokers and non-smokers following active and supportive periodontal therapy in patients with chronic periodontitis.material and methods gingival crevicular fluid and subgingival plaque were collected from the deepest periodontal pocket in 50 patients 25 smokers and 25 non-smokers at baseline t0 following active t1 and 12 mo of supportive periodontal therapy t2.

apparently there seems to be an immunosuppressant effect of smoking regulating the local inflammatory response and bone remodeling markers captured in gingival crevicular fluid following periodontal therapy.cigarette smoking may affect periodon- tal tissues through modulating the immune response to periodontal patho- gens.

n. leknesfaculty of medicine and dentistry department of clinical dentistry university of bergen bergen norwaydagmar f. bunaes dds department of clinical dentistry--periodontics faculty of medicine and dentistry university of bergen aarstadveien 19 n-5009 bergen norway tel 47 55 58 66 43fax 47 55 58 64 92e-mail key words chronic periodontitis gingival crevice fluid microbiology periodontal immunology periodontal therapy smokingaccepted for publication november 21 2016conclusion except for an upregulation of interleukin-8 smokers exhibited reduced gingival crevicular fluid levels of several inflammatory markers at base- line and following active and supportive periodontal therapy.

thus far no prospective study has compared inflammatory responses in gingival crevicular fluid following active periodontal therapy apt and supportive periodontal therapy spt in smokers and non-smokers.this prospective study was designed to test the hypothesis that smoking downregulates the expression of the inflammatory molecules in gin- gival crevicular fluid during treatment of chronic periodontitis.

however the reli- ability of an overall reduced inflam- matory response in smokers was substantiated by the fact that gingival crevicular fluid samples were collected from sites exhibiting similar probing depth clinical attachment level bi pi and gingival crevicular fluid vol- ume in smokers and non-smokers.

j periodont res 2017 52 713-724 all rights reservedthe effect of smoking on inflammatory and bone remodeling markers in gingival crevicular fluid and subgingival microbiota following periodontal therapybunaes df mustafa m mohamed hg lie sa leknes kn.

the effect of smoking on inflammatory and bone remodeling markers in gingival crevicular fluid and subgingival microbiota following periodontal therapy.

inter- leukin il-1b and tumor necrosis fac- tor tnf-a are mostly studied il-1b levels decreased in smokers and non- smokers following 6 wk of non-surgi- cal therapy 26 whereas at 6 mo the levels were reduced in non-smokers only 27. tnf-a did not change in smokers and non-smokers following 1 mo of non-surgical therapy 28. at 6 mo however a decreased level was observed in smokers 29. interest- ingly smoking seemed to upregulate the chemokine il-8 following therapy 30 whereas opg decreased in both smokers and non-smokers 31.previous follow-up studies evaluat- ing the local inflammatory status have analyzed a limited number of gingival crevicular fluid markers.

