Members of the genus Streptococcus are also involved in infections caries S. mutans S. sobrinus localised aggressive periodontitits S. parasanguinis chronic periodonti- tis S. constellatus S. intermedius abscesses S. anginosus and endocarditis S. mitis.

A diverse group of almost fifty phages rep- resenting different morphotypes and both lifestyles were reported to infect S. mitis S. mutans S. oralis S. salivarius or S. sobrinus   Four strictly lytic siphoviruses e10 f1 M102M102DL names of two batches and cpAPCM01 targeting S. mutans were studied in detail  The phages were serotype-specific had narrow host ranges and were active in the presence of extracellular polysaccharide.

Engineered lysins exhibit a wider host range  The specificity of the lysins was attributed to the requirement for the substrate interpeptide bridge sequence - either lysine-alanine1-3 PH15 or lysine-alanine2-3 cpO1205 - or the requirement for the choline- bound teichoic acid receptor PH10  Some lysins may not be suitable as therapeu- tics one from phage SM1 interacts with fibrinogen and in this way contributes to platelet binding  In summary lysins are a novel type of antimicrobials that can be used to target oral bacteria.The use of bacteriophages to biocontrol oral biofilmsThe reviewed studies provided the evidence that phages and their enzymes possess antimicrobial properties against oral bacte- ria here the effect of phages on bacteria organised in biofilms is described.Effect of bacteriophages on oral biofilmsThe five studies that investigated the effect of phages on oral biofilms of A. actinomycetemcomitans E. faecalis and S. mutans are listed in In all studies counts of viable bacteria were signif- icantly reduced in the presence of phages ranging from 2.3 log10 reduction to complete clearing.

in experimental models of pneumonia and skin infection act synergistically with other antimicrobials  or even after engineering target intracellular bacteria  Lysins tested against A. naeslundii and a broad range of Strep-tococcus species are listed in  Enzymes targeting A. naeslundii S. gordonii S. mitis S. oralis S. pneumoniae and S. thermophilus have amidase endopeptidase or lysozyme activity.

Since animals suffer from similar oral biofilm infections phages can first be commercialised for oral veterinary medicine and later gradually introduced to human oral healthcare.Biocontrol of oral biofilms and systemic healthThere is increasing evidence that pathogens from oral biofilms can directly and indirectly impact systemic health  Oral pathogens can often enter a blood stream during dental procedures and spread systemically  Precise phage-based elimination of these pathogens from the mouth may be desirable.

urology dermatology  Here we argue that phages can be used to biocontrol the pathogens in oral biofilms.Phages for oral bacteriaWe reviewed the studies that describe the detection isola- tion and characterisation of phages for oral bacteria as well as the composition and activity of the oral phage commu- nity.

The research on streptococcal phages and their enzymes has led to patents on phage-based biocontrol of oral infections  Bacteriophages for oral anaerobesOral anaerobes representing the genera Fusobacterium phylum Fusobacteria Porphyromonas Prevotella Tannerella all phylum Bacteroidetes Treponema phylum Synergistetes and Veillonella phylum Firmicutes contribute to periodontal disease and have also been reported in other oral and extra-oral infections In total 31 phages for oral anaerobes have been reported FusobacteriumTwo virulent phages infecting Fusobacterium nucleatum have been isolated from saliva samples One of these siphovirus Fnpcp02 targeted three subsp.

Three stud- ies reported phage typing of the staphylococci isolated from the oral cavity Temperate phages were induced from the fresh oral isolate of Staphylococcus epidermidis Putative phages for oral members of genera Campylobacter Car- diobacterium Gemmella Granulicatella Haemophilus Leptotrichia and Oribacterium have been detected by metagenomics but have not been isolated so far  In summary the oral cavity is inhabited by hundreds of bacterial species of which more than half have been cultured.

Dental implants used to replace teeth are also readily colonised by periodontopathogens that can even quicker damage peri-implant tissue and ultimately cause implant failure Dental caries and periodontitis affect 91 and 46 of adult west- ern populations respectively  Prevalences of 43 and 22 have been estimated for peri-implant mucositis inflammation in the soft tissue surrounding a dental implant and peri-implantitis characterised by the loss of bone supporting the dental implant respectively  The oral biofilm-associated diseases greatly influence qual- ity of life systemic health and expenditure  Good oral hygiene low dietary carbo- hydrate intake and non-smoking favours but does not guarantee oral health.

In the following sections we describe phages for oral members of genera Actinomyces Aggregatibacter Enterococcus Streptococcus oral anaerobes and other oral bacteria.Actinomyces spp.

