we discuss currently available treatments and those in pre-clinical use.figure 1. innate and adaptive immune system.figure 2. new drugs in ibd inflammatory bowel disease targeting innate and adaptive immune system.components of the innate immune systemin innate immunity pathogens are recognized and responded to in an immediate non-specific way and cells involved in this type of response include neutrophils and other types of granulocytes macrophages natural killer nk cells innate lymphoid cells and mast cells.

this review briefly describes the molecular basis of immune based gastrointestinal inflammation in ibd and then describes how several current and future biologic agents work to manipulate these pathways and their clinical success to date.keywords inflammatory bowel disease innate immunity adaptive immunity molecular targets biologic therapies anti-tnf anti-integrins inflammatory cytokinesintroductioninflammatory bowel disease ibd is a multifactorial chronic relapsing immune-mediated inflammatory condition composed of two main subtypes namely crohn's disease cd and ulcerative colitis uc.

the expression of transcription factor fox3p is critical for the development and function of treg cells and they are induced by high levels of tgf-b.interplay between the innate and adaptive immune system in ibd and the influence of pleiotropic factors as targets for current treatment of ibdthe immunopathogenicity in ibd is thought to be due to the initial activation of the innate immune system causing a non-specific response followed by the upregulation and maintenance of this inflammation by activation of the adaptive immune system involving various feedback loops generating and sustaining chronic inflammation.

2017 10 162-171.  allocca m. jovani m. fiorino g. schreiber s. danese s. anti-il-6 treatment for inflammatory bowel diseases next cytokine next target.

beyond the barrier function of the innate immune system intraluminal pathogens communicate with the innate immune system via several immune receptors including toll like receptors tlrs and nod like receptors nlrs which are important for developing tolerance to certain pathogens and promoting wound healing .

nk cells which were previously thought to be the only innate immune cells of lymphoid origin are now known to be a subtype of the innate lymphoid cell group.components of the adaptive immune systemone of the primary steps in the initiation of the adaptive immune response involves activation of the th lymphocytes th1 th2 th17 and th22 cells and suppression of the activity of treg cells .

we suggest a simplified approach to dissecting the mechanism of action of current therapies for ibd as outlined in figure by considering firstly those acting on the adaptive immune system secondly those acting on the innate immune systemand local luminal factors and thirdly those acting on the pleiotropic factors which influence both the innate and adaptive immune systems.

however this study did demonstrate a better response in patients with a higher baseline crp c reactive protein level and previous reports of a longer required duration of treatment for all anti-adhesion based medications in cd over uc further studies with a longer course of treatment are warranted to determine the actual treatment effect.manipulation of the intestinal microbiome fecal microbiota transplantation and bacteriotherapythe intestinal microbiome has been recognized as a key component of ibd pathogenesis thought to work mainly by manipulation and activation of the innate immune system.

no clinical trials have been developed targeting this pathway specifically in ibd yet however due to its potential to prevent and reverse intestinal fibrosis it represents and exciting area of treatment development .conventional therapies affecting the innate immune system and local factorsthe target of action of both oral and local 5-aminosalicylates and steroids is on the innate immune system and locally on colonic mucosal cells.immunogenicitya problem increasingly encountered with the more widespread use of biologic agents is that of immunogenicity.

seidelin j.b. ainsworth m. coskun m. will novel oral formulations change the management of inflammatory bowel disease expert opin.

rep. 2016 18 51-57.  bravata i. fiorino g. allocca m. repici a. danese s. new targeted therapies such as anti-adhesion molecules anti-il-1223 and anti-janus kinases are looking toward a more effective treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.

2017 18 2020 doiunderstood which of these factors are the initiators of inflammation and which are compounders however as an autoimmune condition there is accepted recognition of the role of the innate immune system to initiate inflammation followed by the adaptive immune system to maintain this inflammation and cause progression of disease.the medical treatment of ibd focuses on controlling active and chronic gastrointestinal inflammation and preventing disease progression to induce clinical biochemical endoscopic and histological remission.

however short and longer term safety concerns regarding the use of biologics including the risks of infectious allergic malignant and immune mediated complications need to be fully delineated before these newer medications can be incorporated into clinical practice.this review firstly gives a basic overview of the role of the innate and adaptive immune systems in ibd pathogenesis figure  and secondly on the use of these factors as treatment targets by biological agents in ibd figure .

a few antibodies in pre-clinical trials have been developed against il-6 including sirukumab and olokizumab however no clinical trials in ibd have been undertaken .other non-biologic therapies with a pleiotropic effectthe interface between the adaptive and innate immune system is the target of a number of therapies in ibd including systemic steroids immunosuppressant medications and bone marrow transplantation.targeting the innate immune system and local factorsleukocyte trafficking anti-integrins and adhesion moleculesleukocyte trafficking refers to the process of attraction and gut-homing of leukocytes from the systemic circulation towards gastrointestinal endothelial cells and subsequent adhesion to inflamed cells.

reviewthe innate and adaptive immune system as targets for biologic therapies in inflammatory bowel diseasegrainne holleran 12 loris lopetuso 1 valentina petito 1 cristina graziani 1 gianluca ianiro 1 deirdre mcnamara 2 antonio gasbarrini 1 and franco scaldaferri 1internal medicine gastroenterology and liver unit gastroenterology areafondazione policlinico universitario gemelli universita cattolica del sacro cuore 00168 rome italy l.l.

