at all sampling points and for all parameters analysed except for feeding rate fish larvae were sampled before feeding which normally occurs at 900. fish larvae collected for cortisol diges- tive enzymes and lysozyme activity determination were rinsed with distilled water and flash-frozen in liquid nitrogen.

this procedure was carried for each tank and halos were measured using imagej software.microbiota quantification on fish larvae gut and rearing watercounting of heterotrophic bacteria was performed for water and fish larvae sampled at 34 dah to evaluate system contamination at the end of the trial.

piscicida whereas for ctrl treatment only two out of four replicates exhibited an inhibitory capacity.microbiota quantification of fish larvae gut and rearing watercfu counts for vibrionaceae were significantly lower in ysa for water and fish larvae when compared to ctrl treatment p  0.05 table .

rev fish biol fish 9211-268moretti a pedini fernadez-criado m cittolin g guidastri r 1999. manual on hatchery production of sea bass andgilthead sea bream.

rome.murray al ponald jp alcorn sw fairgrieve wt shearer kd roley d 2003 effects of various feed supplements contain- ing fish protein hydrolysate or fish processing by products on the innate immune functions of juvenile coho salmon oncorhynchus kisutch.

larval parameters such as growth survival digestive capacity structural-histology and functional-enzymatic activity stress level cortisol content non-specific immune response lysozyme activity anti-bacterial activity disc-diffusion assay and microbiota quantification fish larvae gut and rearing water were monitored.

fish larvae digestive capacity stress level and non-specific immune response were not affected by the use of ysa.

seabream larvae .macroalgaeintroductionthe sustainability of marine aquaculture production de- pends among other factors on the adequate supply of fish juveniles both in quality and quantity.

moreover non-pathogenic bacteria may have a negative impact on fish larvae due to the risk of providing excessive bacteria hache and plante .

the red seaweed asparagopsis armata was among several seaweed spe- cies tested in vitro the most effective in inhibiting the growth of fish pathogenic bacteria bansemir et al.

.some studies reported that fish larvae perform better in a microbiologically controlled environment when compared to an environment with an inconstant and unstable microbial community dhert et al.

innate immunity protects fish larvae against hostile environments vadestein et al.

but these mechanisms have energetic costsanderson and zeeman  thus affecting fish growth performance.

the assessment of fish larvae digestive capacity morphology and functionality to- gether with the quantification of parameters related with stress response and non-specific immune defence has been used to characterize whole-organism performance hamlin et al.

controlling the bacterial load of live feeds might contribute for higher survival rates and improve larval development since fish larvae can use their energetic budget for development and growth instead of dispersing it among other actions such as defence against pathogens.therefore this work attempted to evaluate the sur- vival growth and physiological status of s. aurata lar- vae when using a commercial extract of the seaweeda.

