malignant transformation of olk is greater with increasing age female gender non-smoking extent of olk and may be affected by location with some studies reporting that olk on the lateral and ventral surfaces of the tongue and the floor of mouth having a higher rate of transformation        .

confirmation of these results was carried out using paired analysis of olk and contralateral tissue for specific otus or species.firstly communities from olk patients combining both olk and contralateral samples were compared with communities from healthy controls.

82391. doi abbreviations ach acetaldehyde olk oral leukoplakia oscc oral squamous cell carcinoma.by the identification of potentially malignant precursors such as olk a condition that manifests as white raised patches on the mucosal surface.

although smoking alcohol and betel nut use are clearly associated with the development of olk factors that drive the malignant transformation of these lesions are poorly understood and it is difficult to accurately predict whether an olk will resolve persist or progress to oscc  .

patients presenting with olk n 36 average age 60.6 were swabbed at the site of the olk and a contralateral normal site where present supplementary table s1.

positive olk were located at lingual sites tongue palate.the species richness of the mucosal communities from healthy and olk tissue were compared using species-accumulation rarefaction curves .

this study was designed to investigate differences in the bacterial community structure of olk by comparing the microbiome of olk samples with healthy mucosa from the same patient and control samples from healthy individuals.

was also more prevalent on olk compared to non-olk sites.mucosal communities from olk patients exhibited reduced species richness compared to healthy control subjects but overall levels of biodiversity remained similar.

the reported rate of transformation of olk varies from 1 to 20 depending on the population and the length of follow up    .

candida colonization is often associated with olk which is referred to as candidal leukoplakia and is characterized by hyphal infiltration of the tissue    .

the current study was designed to examine the microbiome of potentially malignant olk to determine if specific microbial enrichments could be identified early in the malignant process that could play a role in progression.

no normal sites were present in four patients and five patients presented with more than one olk and were swabbed at both sites supplementary table s1.

in total 35 of samples from olk sites showed significant colonization with candida spp.

the curves also indicated that healthy control subjects exhibitedgreater species richness compared to samples recovered from olk patients.

mucosalhealth status appeared to influence population structure as bacterial communities from olk samples exhibited significant separation from contralateral and healthy control mucosa in amova tests p  0.007. however smoking and the site of sampling i.e.

