the findings suggest that the complex modulation of the yeast ecosystem by s. cerevisiae will influence the outcome of wine fermentation by selectively changing the contribution of non-saccharomyces species.materials and methodsyeast strains and culture conditionssixteen yeast isolates obtained from the culture collection of the institute for wine biotechnology iwbt and two commercial yeast species s. cerevisiae lalvin ec1118 lallemand canada and torulaspora delbrueckii biodiva lallemand canada were used in this study .

such an interaction is perhaps not coincidental since other studies have shown that in nutrient- rich conditions co-fermentations using strains of these two species often reflect a significant contribution of h. vineae to wine aroma and flavor   .based on our current findings we can infer that the mutualism s. cerevisiae and h. vineae and antagonism s. cerevisiae andw.

106 1-4. sun h. ma h. hao m. pretorius i. s. and chen s. 2009. identification of yeast population dynamics of spontaneous fermentation in beijing wine region china.

consequently eight species m. pulcherrima p. terricola s. bacillaris c. parapsilosis w. anomalus l. thermotolerans h. vineae and s. cerevisiae which could be reliably resolved in arisa and could be distinguished based on their colony morphology on wln agar were selected to establish a model consortium.

the data showed that in the absence of s. cerevisiae some non- saccharomyces species such as m. pulcherrima and c. parapsilosis experienced a decline from the onset of fermentation whereas species such as s. bacillaris p. terricola and l. thermotolerans experienced a moderate increase followed by a steady decline in the absolute numbers by the middle of fermentation.

methods 45 127-134. maturano y. p. mestre m. v. esteve-zarzoso b. nally m. c. lerena m. c. toro m. e. et al.

141 2513-2521. mendoza l. m. de nadra m. c. m. bru e. and fari as m. e. 2009. influence of wine-related physicochemical factors on the growth and metabolism of non- saccharomyces and saccharomyces yeasts in mixed culture.

in contrast in the presence of s. cerevisiae specifically this yeast declines early in fermentation suggesting that s. cerevisiae creates an unconducive environment which suppresses w. anomalus.

s. cerevisiae may inhibit other organisms through a variety of mechanisms including the production of short chain fatty acids and glycoproteins killer toxin and the specific antagonism exerted by s. cerevisiae modulates the ecosystem    .

our data suggest that inoculation with s. cerevisiae favors the persistence of some non-saccharomyces species in wine fermentation whereas it clearly suppresses the growth and contribution of other non- saccharomyces species.the dynamics of the wine ecosystem is driven by a multitude of positive and negative yeast-yeast interactions.

6 102-111. izquierdo canas p. m. esteban c. romero g. heras j. m. monica m. and gonzalez f. 2014. influence of sequential inoculation of wickerhamomyces anomalus and saccharomyces cerevisiae in the quality of red wines.

29 18-26. tristezza m. tufariello m. capozzi v. spano g. mita g. and grieco f. 2016. the oenological potential of hanseniaspora uvarum in simultaneous and sequential co-fermentation with saccharomyces cerevisiae for industrial wine production.

in addition s. bacillaris strains are typically fructophilic and therefore preferentially utilize fructose which is less preferred by s. cerevisiae.

terricola and m. pulcherrima others repeatedly persist until late fermentation s. bacillaris l. thermotolerans t. delbrueckii regardless of the strain variability            .one of the goals of the current study was to establish a consortium that would serve as a representative model to predict yeast dynamics in wine fermentation.

199 33-40. ghosh s. bagheri b. morgan h. h. divol b. and setati m. e. 2015. assessment of wine microbial diversity using arisa and cultivation-based methods.

