this suggests that profiling the microbial community in and on our body could also help to reveal details about an individual's lifestyle gonzalez et al.

for example the bacterial community found on your finger tips microbial fingerprint could be traced on a keyboard so that which keyboard and even which keys a person used could be identified based on the bacterial residue fierer et al.

2010. furthermore mobile phones carry the personal microbial signatures of the owner meadow et al.

indeed many criminal cases still go unsolved despite advances in dna profiling for example in 2015 only 20 of resi- dential burglaries 1.5 million were resolved by authori- ties according to the 2015 fbi uniform crime reporting statistics clearances n.d.. this can be explained in part by resource allocation as burglaries are not priori- tized for investigation compared to other higher profile crimes pare et al.

the nih-funded 'human micro- biome project' hmp has significantly improved the sci- entific and public recognition of the vital importance of symbiont ecology to host health and development con- sortium 2012 methe et al.

2012 grice 2015. there are approximately as many bacterial cells in our body as human cells sender et al.

2016 and the compliment of bacterial taxa especially at the subspecies level appears to be unique to each person zhu et al.

the microbiome is even unique in identical twins goodrich et al.

however the microbiome changes over time inan individual oh et al.

2016 so how can it be used to identify a person while the relative proportions of the bacteria do indeed change the composition of the com- munity appears to be relatively stable caporaso et al.

2011 david et al.

in support of this we know that humans shed 30 million bacterial cells into their vicinity every hour qian et al.

2014 lax et al.

for serial burglaries modus operandi behaviour has shed some light by modelling various crime scenes markson et al.

researchers have shown that cosmetics antibiotics usage dietary profiles and even health states have been associated with corresponding changes in the skin microbiota rosenthal et al.

