11 036010view the for updates and enhancements.related contentfrederique vancauwenberghe jesica dadamio isabelle laleman et al.m yoneda y masuo n suzuki et al.magorzata sikorska-uk and marek bochniarecent citations- kavitha seerangaiyan et althis content was downloaded from ip address 149.169.81.41 on 03042018 at 1706paper the tongue microbiome in healthy subjects and patients with intra-received15 february 2017revised20 june 2017accepted for publication28 june 2017published6 september 2017oral halitosiskavitha seerangaiyan arie jan van winkelhoff hermie j m harmsen john w a rossen and edwin g winkel1 center for dentistry and oral hygiene university medical center groningen university of groningen groningen the netherlands2 department of medical microbiology university medical center groningen university of groningen groningen the netherlands3 clinic for periodontology amsterdam amsterdam the netherlands4 authors to whom any correspondence should be addressed.e-mail and keywords intra-oral halitosis tongue microbiome 16s amplicon sequencingabstractintra-oral halitosis ioh is an unpleasant odor emanating from the oral cavity.

subjects filled in the detailed halitosis and medical questionnaire cai  and a thorough periodontal and halitosis examination was performed to determine whether the patient fulfilled the entrance criteria.exclusion criteriasubjects with the presence of systemic diseases and on systemic medication related to oral dryness preg- nancy those using antimicrobial therapy and mouth rinses during the three months prior to the start of the study those with a history of fever and cold as well as patients who had not followed the proper instructions for halitosis assessment were excluded from the study.

tyrrell k l citron d m warren y a nachnani s and goldstein e j 2003 anaerobic bacteria cultured from the tongue dorsum of subjects with oral malodor anaerobe kazor c e mitchell p m lee a m stokes l n loesche w j dewhirst f e and paster b j 2003 diversity of bacterial populations on the tongue dorsa of patients with halitosis and healthy patients j. clin.

intra-oral halitosis ioh is caused by conditions in the oral cavity and accounts for 80-90 of halitosis .

subjects with a dpsi score of 3 were excluded from participation in the study.inclusion criteriaafter the screening session the following parameters were establishedorganoleptic score ols 0no halitosis to 5presence of extreme halitosis from nose and mouth  volatile sulfur compound vsc level measured with halimeterr interscan corporation califor- nia united statesvsc gases namely hydrogen sulfide h2s antmd methyl mercaptan ch3sh from oralchromaabilit corporation japandutch periodontal screening index dpsi winkel tongue coating index wtci for organoleptic testing patients were asked to close their mouth for 1 min and then slowly exhale air from the nose and mouth at a distance of approxi- mately 10 cm from the nose of an experienced exam- iner egw.

the hypothesis therefore was that the composition of the tongue microflora inpatients with this condition would be different com- pared to subjects without oral halitosis.

riggio m p lennon a rolph h j hodge p j donaldson a maxwell a j and bagg j 2008 molecular identification of bacteria on the tongue dorsum of subjects with and without halitosis oral dis.

mcnamara t f alexander j f and lee m 1972 the role of microorganisms in the production of oral malodor oral surgery oral med.

halitosis can be subdivided into extra- and intra-oral halitosis.

tangerman a and winkel e 2007 intra- and extra-oral halitosis finding of a new form of extra-oral blood-borne halitosis caused by dimethyl sulphide j. clin.

prior to their visit subjects were instructed to 1 avoid onion garlic and hot spices in their diet for 48 h before their appointment 2 refrain from alcohol intake and smoking 12 h prior to the halitosis exam- ination 3 abstain from normal oral hygiene proce- dures and 4 avoid mint containing products after- shave lotions and highly scented cosmetics on the day of the examination.

therefore the weighted unifrac represented a similar community composition between the ioh and control group.microbial profiles related to halitosis and oral health all sequences obtained were clustered into the otus based on 97 identity.

moreover a significant correlation was found between ch3sh and ch32s and therefore thistable 3. differentially abundant operational taxonomic units of the intra-oral halitosis and control group that are significantly different padjusted 0.05 and blastn result.otu operational taxonomic unit.elevated amount of ch32s from the oral cavity might be due to the methylation of ch3sh .

haraszthy v i zambon j j sreenivasan p k zambon m m gerber d rego r and parker c 2007 identification of oral bacterial species associated with halitosis j. am.

winkel e g roldan s van winkelhoff a j herrera d and sanz m 2003 clinical effects of a new mouthrinse containing chlorhexidine cetylpyridinium chloride and zinc-lactate on oral halitosis j. clin.

