in those women delivering 34 with l. iners dominance cst iii similar proportions were represented across ethnic groups caucasian 69 67 asian 34 75 and black women 35 60additional file calculation of predictive accuracies for preterm birth using cst assignments at 16 weeks provided sensitivity and specificity values comparable to screening using cer- vical length l. iners dominance predicted preterm birth 340 weeks with 67 sensitivity and 71 specifi- city table while its absence provided a 94 negative predictive value npv the ppv of l. iners dominance for preterm birth 34 weeks was 22. high relative l.crispatus abundance was strongly predictive of birth34 weeks gestation 89 specificity and 97 ppvtable effect of progesterone intervention on vaginal microbial communities in high-risk pregnancygiven the significant association between vaginal micro- bial composition at 16 weeks and cervical length andor subsequent preterm birth 340 weeks we next con- ducted a longitudinal study of the vaginal microbiome in women receiving vaginal progesterone supplementation for a short cervix 25 mm.

in contrast significantly lower stability was observed in the 23 women exhibiting a l. iners-dominated microbiome at the first sampling with 17 74 of these women ex- periencing a shift to an alternative cst at some stage during their pregnancy p 0.0001. similar levels of cst-shifting were observed in those women receiving vaginal supplementation 925 36 and control patients 1043 23 p 0.3.when gestational age at sampling maternal age bmi ethnicity and cohort were incorporated into a linear mixed-effects model progesterone treatment did not have a significant impact upon csts apart from cst ii however this difference did not withstand multiple test- ing correction additional file when further assessed by relative abundance of individual species there were no significant differences in proportions of l. gasseri or any other species in the control compared to progesterone cohorts additional file table 3 predictive accuracies of microbial species dominance at 16 weeks for gestation 34 weekscst community state type based on ward hca of species data sensdr sensitivity or detection rate spec specificity ppvnpv positivenegative predictive valuestable 4 participant demographics for control and progesterone groupsptb preterm birth ga gestational age cl cervical length mmin women receiving progesterone marked differences in the longitudinal cst distributions were observed in women delivering 34 weeks compared to those deliver- ing 34 weeks fig.

this strength was demonstrated by a high spontaneous pre- term birth rate n  34161. the mean gestation at birth of 326 weeks within our preterm birth cohort and a distribution of gestational ages ranging from 24 to 36 weeks enabled the characterization of microbial pro- files associated with both early 34 weeks and late 34  37 weeks preterm birth providing a broader observational base for microbial-host interactions in pregnancy.

consistent with these findings mea- surements of species richness total number of species observed additional file and alpha diversitytable 1 patient demographics for a cross-section of 161 participantsptb preterm birth na not applicablep  0.05 fisher's exact term vs. preterm birth groupsshannon index additional file  at 16 weeks were com- parable between women experiencing term 370 weeks n  127 late preterm 340-366 weeks n  16 and early preterm 340 weeks n  18 delivery.hierarchical clustering of species data permitted clas- sification of samples into community state types csts i l. crispatus ii l. gasseri iii l. iners iv diverse species and v l. jensenii fig.

second trimester transvagi- nal cervical length measurements are considered a reliable and predictive tool for preterm birth and are fre- quently used for preterm birth surveillance preg- nant women with a short cervix 25 mm before 24 weeks of gestation are considered at highest risk of preterm birth early diagnosis of these pregnancies enables timely and targeted intervention by either cervical cerclage or vaginal progesterone therapy  while both prevention strategies display comparable efficacy progesterone supplementation is increas- ingly used as it negates the surgical risks associated with cerclage insertion such as maternal pyrexia vaginal infection bleeding and subsequent requirement for cesarean section and has not been associated with any adverse neonatal effects the mechanism of action of vaginal progesterone in the prevention of preterm birth involves its capacity to promote anti-inflammatory and pro-relaxant pathways in the uterus thereby reducing uterine contractility - endogenous progesterone is thought to largely exert anti-inflammatory downstream effects via progesterone receptor b-dominant signaling to inhibit nitric oxide prostaglandin and cytokine production this ultimately reduces myometrial contractility thereby inhibiting premature onset of labor progesterone also exerts a quiescent effect on the cervix by limiting prostaglandin-induced collagenous remodeling of the cervical fibroblast - progesterone supplementa- tion is therefore prescribed primarily for its systemic anti-inflammatory actions to maintain myometrial and cervical quiescence in high-risk pregnancies.

in agreement with our findings a recent longitudinal analysis of the vaginal microbiome by romero and col- leagues in 18 women experiencing preterm birth 34 weeks gestation reported no association between preterm birth and vaginal microbial dysbiosis when com- pared to controls experiencing term delivery n  72 4. however in their study 95 1718 of preterm birth samples and 86 of control samples were collected from african american women who exhibit a higher pregnant and non-pregnant background prevalence of vaginaldysbiosis cst iv  .

spontaneous preterm birth 37 weeks oc- curred in 34 women 21 mean 326 weeks sd - 36 weeks range 244-366 weeks.

the association of the vaginal microbiome at 16 weeks of gestation and risk of preterm birthmajor differences were detected in vaginal microbial communities at 16 weeks in women subsequently delivering early preterm 340 weeks compared those delivering late preterm 340 to 366 weeks or at term370 weeks fig.

a logistic regression mixed-effects model demonstrated that the association between gestation at birth and cst at 16 weeks persisted after accounting for ethnicity maternal age bmi and gestation at sampling p  0.04 anova additional file when individual species were assessed by mixed-effects modeling follow- ing correction for potential confounders both l. crispa- tus and l. iners were significantly correlated with birth outcome with l. crispatus positively associated with delivery 34 weeks p  0.009 q  0.048 and l. iners positively associated with delivery 34 weeks p  0.001 q  0.006 additional file the analysis of outcomes stratified by ethnicity did not identify a significant difference between groups although this may be due to relatively small sample sizes.

.cross-sectional cohortin the cross-sectional cohort a total number of species observed and the shannon index of alpha diversity were calculated and compared across gestation at birth 340 weeks 340 to 366 weeks and 370 weeks using a2-way anova.examination of the relationship between vaginal bac- terial communities or csts and cervical length or pre- term birth was assessed using a fisher exact test as to provide an exact robust p value that is less sensitive to small sample sizes than alternative approaches such as chi-squared reference.

at 18 weeks of gestation l. iners dominance was observed in 100 44 of women who subsequently delivered 34 weeks of gestation compared to 24 521 in women delivering 34 weeks.

microbiome 2017 56doi 10.1186s40168-016-0223-9the interaction between vaginal microbiota cervical length and vaginal progesterone treatment for preterm birth risklindsay m. kindinger123 phillip r. bennett12 yun s lee1 julian r. marchesi456 ann smith5 stefano cacciatore1 elaine holmes46 jeremy k. nicholson46 t. g. teoh13 and david a. macintyre1backgroundpreterm birth before 37 weeks of gestation is now the leading cause of death among children under the age of five an estimated 15 million babies are born preterm each year and in the usa alone the annual healthcare costs associated with those babies that survive is in ex- cess of 25 billion ascending bacterial infection from the vagina through the cervix into the uterine cav- ity is considered to be a major cause of spontaneous correspondence 1imperial college parturition research group division of the institute of reproductive and developmental biology department of surgery andcancer faculty of medicine imperial college london hammersmith campus london w12 0nn ukfull list of author information is available at the end of the articlepreterm birth -maternal host-vaginal microbial in- teractions throughout pregnancy are likely to play a fun- damental role in reproductive health outcomes.

a workflow of the study is provided in additional file patient details and sample collection for cross-sectional recruitmentto investigate the association between the vaginal microbiome cervical length and preterm birth outcome a cross-sectional cohort of singleton pregnancies at higher than normal risk of preterm birth due to a his- tory of previous spontaneous preterm birth 37 weeks0days were prospectively recruited from the preterm sur-veillance clinics at two tertiary london maternity units between january 2013 and august 2014. at initial at- tendance of preterm surveillance clinics at 16 weeks of gestation cervico-vaginal fluid was sampled from the posterior fornix under direct visualization using a bbltm cultureswabtm maxv liquid amies swab becton dickinson and company oxford uk.

we therefore undertook a prospective study in women at high-risk of preterm birth to assess 1 the relationship between vaginal microbiota in the second trimester and the risk of preterm birth and 2 the impact of vaginal progester- one therapy on the vaginal microbiota in women with a short cervix.methodsthe study was approved by nhs national research ethics service nres committee london - city and east rec 12lo2003 and all participants provided written informed consent at enrolment.

both progesterone and control groups were recruited at 18 weeks and vaginal swab samples were collected longitudinally at 22 28 and 34 weeks of gestation.eligibility criteria for participation in both cross- sectional and longitudinal studies included women with a singleton pregnancy and a prior spontaneous preterm birth 37 weeks0 days who had not undergone cl screening or received either progesterone or cerclage intervention prior to recruitment.

