in a phase 2 trial in a bunio- nectomy model trv130 at 1 mg was equi-analgesic to morphine 4 mg but induced constipation in 15 638of patients compared to 5 239 for morphine .

although it was reported that pzm21 was less potent in reducing gastrointestinal motility than morphine an equi-analgesic dose to morphine was not tested .

recent studies show that chronic opioid use is associated with microbial dysbiosis in man  disruption of gut epithelial barrier by chronic morphine in mice enhances 'leakiness' allowing for bacterial trans- location in ileum  and in colon  reported disruption of the gut epithelial barrier as a result of morphine mediated activation of the toll-like receptors tlr on the epithelial cells allowing for bacterial pro- ducts to translocate.

the enhanced sen- sitivity to morphine cautions the use of peripherally restricted opioids in treating chronic diarrhea in hiv-1 infected individuals.the role of microbial dysbiosis and potential increased infection in the colon was recently addressed with regard to the development of tolerance to chronic morphine.

cytokines inflammatory soup released from glia affect extrinsic sensory afferents whose cell bodies lie within the dorsal root ganglia drg and induce tolerance to opioids.the gastrointestinal microbiome in opioid tolerance akbarali and dewey 129nociceptive neurons from the drg of chronic morphine treated mice patch clamp studies showed that morphine challenge did not reduce neuronal excitability indicative of the development of tolerance.

however in drg neurons from chronic morphine with antibiotics treated mice morphine challenge reduced neuronal excitability indicating that tolerance did not develop in these noci- ceptors.

the therapeutic effects of morphine and other opioids are limited by their side effects that include nausea vomiting abdominal pain and constipation that are collectively referred to as 'opioid induced bowel dysfunction' .

more recently voltage clamp studies in isolated myenteric neurons have shown that morphine inhibits tetrodotoxin ttx-resistant sodium channels on neuro- nal cell bodies thus affecting the threshold for action potentials .

sodium channels were inactivated in the presence of morphine thus rendering the neurons inca- pable of firing multiple action potentials resulting in an overall decreased excitability.

interaction of morphine with activation of inwardly rectifying potassium channels and inhibition of calcium channels involves direct inter- action of g-protein subunits in a membrane delimited pathway following receptor activation .

the role of b-arrestin2 in tolerance to morphine mediated inhibition of gastrointestinal motility differs from that to antinoci- ceptive tolerance.

chronic exposure to morphine in the mouse ileum reduces b-arrestin2 expression and induces tolerance .

in the colon however b-arrestin2 remains elevated following chronic morphine and is associated with lack of tolerance development.

the disparate effects of morphine tolerance between one clinical effect i.e.

that activation of the connexin-purinergic pathway in enteric glia by the bacterial product lipopolysaccharide was a significant source of cytokine release with chronic morphine treatment.

