large studies capable of exploring smaller magnitude effects of smoking on specific oral niches are needed to fully understand subtle smoking-induced alteration in microbiota.data for smoking effects on the nasal microbiota are sparser and even less clear.

in contrast to our null results swabs from the left and right nasopharynx in 62 subjects found significant differences in relative abundance of diverse taxa by smoking status but 55 of these smoking- associated taxa were found only in the left or right naso- pharynx suggesting inconsistency .differences of microbiota across oral sites regardless of smoking point to distinct microbial niches.

subtle effects or temporal effects of smoking could not be examined in this study.conclusionsour study showed that cigarette smoking had a signifi- cant effect on the microbiota of the buccal mucosa but not in other oral sites and nasal cavity.

microbiome 2017 53doi 10.1186s40168-016-0226-6the effect of cigarette smoking on the oral and nasal microbiotaguoqin yu1  stephen phillips2 mitchell h. gail3 james j. goedert4 michael s. humphrys5 jacques ravel5 yanfang ren2 and neil e. caporaso1backgroundcigarette smoke has adverse effects on human health.

no difference in age gender race and alcohol drink were found by smoking status.

thus we cannot ex- clude the possibility of a substantial smoking effect at these two sites.

moreover additional file figure s1 indicates that alpha diversity in the buccal mucosa is lower in smokers as described above.regardless of the smoking status microbiota among the oral sites differed greatly fig.

although our sample size is modest it is remarkable that overall wefound no associations between microbial features and smoking status in other oral sites.

previous studies have shown inconsistent results regarding the effect of smoking on the oral microbiota.

these studies however reported that different taxawere changed by smoking status.

heterogeneity in smoking definitions oral sites sampled study population and inclusionexclusion of par- ticipants with related conditions i.e.

periodontitis and in methods for collecting the specimens likely account for some of the inconsistency with respect to smoking.

in addition our results suggested that smoking did not affect the oral microbiota with a large effective size.

these methods should have identified significant associations with smoking status in the most sampled sites.

the study only allows us to detect the effect of smoking with a large effect size on the oral microbiota.

