it accounts for about 70 mar- ket share in total liquor production in china zhao et al.

2012 hu et al.

2015. the csfl is fermented from carbohydrate-rich raw material mixture by a unique solid-state anaerobic fermentation process tao et al.

the former is a traditional starter culture consist- ing of fungi and yeasts that are responsible for simulta- neous saccharification and alcoholic fermentation of the raw materials hu et al.

the long-aged pits are gener- ally continuously used for decades and thus a unique microbiological flora develops in the pit mud tao et al.

the ca-produ- cing bacteria are thus considered to be important func- tional members in the pm fan and qian 2006 hu et al.

.taxonomic studies using culture- and molecular-basedapproaches have shown that the pm microbiota is com- plex and predominantly consists of the bacterial popula- tions belonging to lactobacillaceae clostridiaceae ruminococcaceae porphyromonadaceae bacillaceae and three archaeal families containing methanobacteri- aceae methanomicrobiaceae and methanosarcinaceae zheng et al.

2013 ding et al.

2014 tao et al.

2014 hu et al.

2015. most micro-organisms in the pm are obligate anaerobic bacteria which are very difficult for cultivation isolation and quantification due to their strict anaerobic requirements and unknown culture conditions doyle et al.

2015. our previous studies indicated that some microbial populations in the pm that is ruminococcaceae clostridiaceae and lactobacillaceae have significant correlation with caproic acid content tao et al.

2014. although these studies based on cul- ture-independent methods indicate microbial diversity of the pm microbiome there is a lack of understanding about the functional potential of the pm microbiome and its active microbial populations in situ.metagenomic analyses of fermentation microbiome can reveal microbial populations and genes involved in fermentation and the production of flavouring compoundsjung et al.

2011 xie et al.

2013. however microbial community based on dna-based distribution does not provide clues on activity of each detected bacterial popu- lation rodriguez-blanco et al.

