the half maximal effective con- centration ec50 was calculated by nonlinear regression analysis using graph pad prism 4.01 software san diego ca usa.kp-mediated effects on c. albicans biofilmin order to assess the effects of kp on the ability of c. albicans to produce biofilm a fungal sus- pension 106 cellsml was transferred 100 mlwell into flat-bottom 96-well plates corning incorporated ny usa and incubated at 37c.to investigate kp effects on early stages of biofilm formation after 90 min of c. albicans adherence non-adherent fungal cells were removed and samples were untreated ctrl or treated with 100 ml of kp 31 62 or 124 mgml or sp 124 mgml for 6 h then fresh crpmi 100 mlwell was added and the plates were further incubated at 37c with 5 co2 until 48 h according to the standard protocol for biofilm production .to investigate kp effects on mature biofilm fungal cells were suspended in crpmi 106 cellsml then 100 mlwell were transferred in flat-bottom 96-well plates and incubated at 37c for 48 h to allow biofilm formation and maturation.

notably kp proved also to act by differ- ent mechanisms in vitro ex vivo andor in vivo against taxonomically unrelated pathogens such as viruses hiv and influenza bacteria protozoa leishmania and achantamoeba and algae other than yeasts including strains resistant to conventional drugs as described in a number of further studies and reviewed in .as no data have been provided so far the aim of this study was the evaluation of the in vitro effect of kp against c. albicans biofilm and the definition of the molecular mechanisms possi- bly involved.materials and methodscandida albicansa total of six c. albicans strains were employed in this study the reference strain sc5314 two wild-type clinical isolates dsy544 and dsy347 and two clinical isolates which had been knocked out for their resistance mechanisms to fluconazole dsy775 was derived from dsy544 dsy289 was derived from dsy347 details on the resistance-conferring alleles and knock-out procedures for the isolates dsy775 dsy544 dsy289 and dsy347 kindly fur- nished by dominique sanglard from the university hospital of lausanne lausanne switzer-land have been described elsewhere -.

all the iso-lates were grown in sabouraud dextrose agar sda plates and maintained by biweekly passages.in selected experiments c. albicans sc5314 transformed with cip10act1p-gluc59 plas- mid bli c. albicans was used .

samples were washed and immediately examined by fluorescence microscopy.analysis of c. albicans biofilm-related gene expression after kp treatmenta qrt-pcr was used to investigate kp-induced changes in transcription level of genes related to biofilm formation.briefly c. albicans sc5314 cells 107 cellsml were grown in flat-bottom 6-well plates bec- ton dickinson labware europe meylan cedex france for 1.5 h or 24 h at 37c in crpmi.

two independent experiments were performed each in triplicate.analysis of kp effects on a medical device-associated c. albicansbiofilmkp capability to interfere with c. albicans biofilm on medical devices was assessed using a cen- tral venous catheter cvc.

kp activity against planktonic yeast cells.ec50 half maximal effective concentration calculated by nonlinear regression analysis using graph pad prism 4.01 softwareinhibitory effects of kp on early stages of c. albicans biofilm developmentfirstly we investigated the capability of kp to interfere with c. albicans biofilm formation onto polystyrene plates.

shows a representative image of cellrox production in a 48-h biofilm by the reference c. albicans strain sc5314 that hadeffect of kp on mature c. albicans biofilm.

forty-eight h-old biofilms obtained from 5 different c. albicans strains were exposed to crpmi untreated or treated with increasing doses of kp 31 62 or 124 mg ml or with sp 124 mgml for 6 h. then total biofilm biomass was measured by crystal violet staining a and metabolic activity was assessed by xtt assay b. data are expressed as percentage of biofilm a and percentage of metabolic activity b in treated samples compared to untreated controls 100. p0.05 orp0.001 indicates significant differences between kp-treated vs untreated groups.reactive oxygen species production by c. albicans mature biofilm exposed to kp.

data are expressed as arbitrary units of pi red fluorescence intensity a. microphotographs from a representative experiment of pi staining b in c. albicans mature biofilm by the reference c. albicans strain sc5314 untreated ctrl or treated with kp or sp both 124 mgml are shown.

no pi fluorescence was observed in untreated ctrl or sp-treated biofilm.kp affects transcriptional profiles of biofilm-associated c. albicans geneskp effects on the transcriptional profiles of 12 biofilm-associated genes were evaluated by quantitative rt-pcr using the c. albicans reference strain sc5314.

p0.05 or p0.001 indicates significant differences between kp- treated and untreated groups.kp impaired c. albicans biofilm formation and mature biofilm produced onto cvcsince kp was shown to strongly reduce c. albicans biofilm formation and also to significantly impair mature biofilm we wondered whether kp could also affect a medical device-associated fungal biofilm.

accordingly a well-established model of c. albicans biofilm development on cvc was used employing a bioluminescent bli c. albicans strain .

serum-precoated cvc pieces were exposed to bli c. albicans 104 cellswell of crpmi for 90 min at 37c after washing they were untreated ctrl or treated for 6 h with kp or sp both 124 mgml and further incubated up to 48 h to allow biofilm formation a. in further experiments serum-precoated cvc pieces were exposed to bli c. albicans 104 cellswell of crpmi for 48 h at 37c prior to be untreated ctrl or treated with kp or sp both 124 mgml for further 6 h b. in both cases bioluminescence by residual biofilm was measured and expressed as rlu left panels as well as viable candida cells were quantified by counting the cfuml right panels.

here we investigated the effects of a synthetic killer peptide kp known to be active in vitro ex vivo andor in vivo against different pathogens on c. albicans biofilm.together with a scrambled peptide used as a negative control kp was tested against can- dida biofilm at different stages of development.

a reference strain two fluconazole-resistant and two fluconazole-susceptible c. albicans clinical isolates were used.

