this hope has fueled numerous investigations into the identity of microbiome-altering stimuli and the nature of microbial contributions to human health and disease.as good luck would have it fecal microbiota transplantationone prototypical microbiome-based intervention that has recent- ly been introduced into routine clinical practice serves as a refer- ence point for the continued hope that microbiome science may ultimately establish new approaches for the rational therapy of amultitude of diseases fecal microbiota transplantation fmt in cases of recurrent intestinal infection with antibiotic-resistant clostridium difficile .

science 351dominguez-bello mg de jesus-laboy km shen n cox lm amir a gonzalez a bokulich na song sj hoashi m rivera- vinas ji et al 2016 partial restoration of the microbiota of cesarean-born infants via vaginal microbial transfer.

sci transl med 6263ra158ridaura vk faith jj rey fe cheng j duncan ae kau al griffin nw lombard v henrissat b bain jr et al 2013 gut microbiota from twins discordant for obesity modulate metabolism in mice.

in addition to the inter-individual variability in microbiota composition of the fmt recipient an additional variable that necessitates a thorough understanding is the donor microbiota .

postbioticswhat is past is prologue the neglected microbial organdespite ilya metchnikoff's visionary work about the impor- tance of intestinal bacteria for the physiology of the host more than 100 years ago for most of the twentieth century the entirety of microorganisms colonizing the gastrointestinal tract--now called the intestinal microbiota--has been primar- ily appreciated for assisting in the digestion of dietary nutri- ents while any physiological or pathophysiological role be- yond this function was largely ignored.

remarkably many of these environmental influences have been shown to shape the ecology of the microbiota such as its taxonomic composition and functional capacities leading to the hypothesis that certain environmental factors may exert their impact on host physiology and disease via the microbial community located at the body's surface .

cell host microbe 15374-381trompette a gollwitzer es yadava k sichelstiel ak sprenger n ngom-bru c blanchard c junt t nicod lp harris nl et al 2014 gut microbiota metabolism of dietary fiber influences aller- gic airway disease and hematopoiesis.

nat med 20159-166suarez-zamorano n fabbiano s chevalier c stojanovic o colin dj stevanovic a veyrat-durebex c tarallo v rigo d germain s et al 2015 microbiota depletion promotes browning of white ad- ipose tissue and reduces obesity.

cell metab 23 1216-1223thaiss ca levy m korem t dohnalova l shapiro h jaitin da david e winter dr gury-benari m tatirovsky e et al 2016 microbiota diurnal rhythmicity programs host transcriptome oscil- lations.

cell 1671495-1510 e1412braniste v al-asmakh m kowal c anuar f abbaspour a toth m korecka a bakocevic n ng lg kundu p et al 2014 the gut microbiota influences blood-brain barrier permeability in mice.

cold spring harb perspect biol 5a007294sampson tr debelius jw thron t janssen s shastri gg ilhan ze challis c schretter ce rocha s gradinaru vet al 2016 gut microbiota regulate motor deficits and neuroinflammation in a mod- el of parkinson's disease.

doithaiss ca zeevi d levy m zilberman-schapira g suez j tengeler ac abramson l katz mn korem t zmora n et al 2014 transkingdom control of microbiota diurnal oscillations promotes metabolic homeostasis.

nat immunol 15307-310cox lm yamanishi s sohn j alekseyenko av leung jm cho i kim sg li h gao z mahana d et al 2014 altering the intestinal microbiota during a critical developmental window has lasting met- abolic consequences.

sci transl med 7307ra152blanton lv charbonneau mr salih t barratt mj venkatesh s ilkaveya o subramanian s manary mj trehan i jorgensen jm et al 2016 gut bacteria that prevent growth impairments transmit- ted by microbiota from malnourished children.

microbiome 13qin j li y cai z li s zhu j zhang f liang s zhang w guan y shen d et al 2012 a metagenome-wide association study of gut microbiota in type 2 diabetes.

