microbiome shotgun sequencing involves the random fragmentation of dna sequencing of these fragments and reconstruc- tion of overlapping sequences into a consecutive sequence for a de- tailed review see .prenatal factors affecting gut colonisationprenatal perturbations such as stress infection preterm birth and diet have been shown to have long-term effects on health and micro- biota composition.stressmaternal stress during pregnancy has been shown to alter the composition of the vaginal microbiota in mice and in particular the abundance of lactobacillus bacteria.

autistic children have been shown to have higher diversity in the bacteria composition when compared to controls .from a phylum level bacteroidetes have been shown to be present in higher levels in severely autistic children while firmicutes were more predominant in the control group .

moreover the gut microbiota has also been shown to play a role in lipid metabolism.

indeed bacteroides thetaiotaomicron has been shown to up-regulate the expression of coli- pase which plays a critical role in lipid metabolism by stimulating the activity of pancreatic lipases .

in- terestingly a recent preclinical study has shown that differences in microbiota composition influence the mucus phenotype  .

late gestational stress in rats has also been shown to induce long lasting alterations in the intestinal microbiota composition with a strong trend towards a decrease in the number of bacteria in the lactobacillus genus accompanied by elevated abundance of the oscillibacter anaerotruncus and peptococcus genera .

thus it is notsurprising that the composition of the microbiota in preterm infants differs from that of infants delivered at term.in particular it has been shown that preterm babies are char- acterised by undetectable bifidobacterium and lactobacillus genera commonly present in the infant gut while a dominance of proteobacteria compared with full-term infants has been described  .

moreover la rosa and colleagues have shown that the gut microbiota of premature infants residing in the neonatal intensive care unit progresses in a programmed succession from bacilli to gamma- proteobacteria to clostridia.

this is characterised by abrupt population changes and the lowest rate of assembly .infectionmaternal immune activation mia in mice has been shown to in- duce alteration of the gut microbiota composition targeting specifically clostridia and bacteroidia .dietthe mother's diet plays also a central role in the development of the child's microbiota.

preclinical studies have shown that parental diet high in fatty acids results in altered microbiome composition and im- mune response in offspring .

in the gut the bacteria can produce neuroactive substances that can impact at a local level by altering secretion motility and blood flow but also signal the cns via vagal affents and spinal cord pathways.free diet in mice has been shown to alter the gut microbiota composi- tion with an increase in the numbers of akkermansia proteobacteria and tn7 while decreasing the proinflammatory milieu in the gut and pan- creas and reducing the incidence of diabetes .

another study carried out in macaca fuscata japanese macaque has shown that high-fat maternal diet diminishes the abundance of non- pathogenic campylobacter in the offspring gut highlighting again the contribution of the maternal diet in establishing the offspring's micro- biota composition .postnatal factors affecting gut colonisationmode of deliverythe mode of delivery determines the initial microbial source the neonate is exposed to thus shaping the colonising microbiota in infants .

results from the koala birth cohort study in the netherlands have shown that infants born via c-section have lower numbers of bifidobacteria and bacteroides while they are more often colonized with clostridium diffi- cile when compared to vaginally delivered neonates  .stressstress especially during early life has been widely described has one of the key players in the alteration of the microbiota composition.

a study conducted in infant rhesus monkeys has also shown that maternal separation is associated with a decrease in fecal bacteria particularly lactobacilli on day 3 after se- paration which was correlated to stress-indicative behaviours and sus- ceptibility to opportunistic bacterial infection.

e. coli has been shown to be similar in both breast- and formula- fed infants .

