The relative abundances of Pseudomonas and Staphylo- coccus were significantly enriched in CF samples Neis- seria Veillonella and Leptotrichia were enriched in control samples while both Streptococcus and Prevotella were similar in CF and control samples Fig.

As expected Pseudomonas was significantly enriched in CF samples while Streptococcus and Prevotella were similarly abundant in both CF and control samples.

Only modest separation between CF and control samples is noted in both PCA plotsdifferent from the control samples Fig.

Examination of an NMDS ordination plot sug- gested that the paired samples did not separate into clusters Additional file The Chao1 index inverse Simpson index Shannon diversity index and the numbers of genera did not differ between the two sets of samples Additional file .

These data sug- gested that the CF microbiome remained stable with reference to taxonomy and diversity during periods of clinical stability.CF samples have lower diversity and richnessAs expected the CF samples were found to have signifi- cantly lower alpha diversity and richness when com- pared to controls as measured by the uncensored number of genera richness inverse Simpson diversity Chao1 richness and Shannon diversity indices Fig.

Corrected AWCD had but a loose correlation when compared to uncensored number of genera in CF samples and no correlation in control samples Fig.

CF samples then were stratified into PA-dominant and PA-non-dominant based on positive or negative growth of PA cultures in clinical microbiology reports from samples at the time of clinic visits.

While the sample col- lected during visit one was used for the primary analysis in this study samples from both visits were used for an additional paired analysis comparing the state of the microbiome between both clinic visits.Sample processingSputum samples were divided for clinical and research use immediately after collection.

Homogeneity of molecular variance HOMOVA a nonparametric analog to Bartlett's test for homogeneity of variance was used to determine if subjects differed signifi- cantly from each other with respect to overall variability in community structure  Analysis of molecular variance AMOVA a non-parametric equivalent to ANOVA was used to test whether the variation between two samples was different from considering the samples as a single population 34.

16S rRNA V4 amplicon sequencing was used to characterize the taxonomy and diversity of the samples.

