This phenomenon might be explained by the fact that fungal cells could compensate for the loss of SWISNF activity by recruiting other chromatin remodelers to mediate the transcrip- tional activation of carbohydrate or heat shock genes.Although Snf2 the catalytic subunit of the SWISNF complex and the other core proteins are conserved among eukaryotes Snf6 is one of the components of the fungal SWISNF complex that is not present in the counterpart human complex.

RESEARCH ARTICLEHost-Microbe BiologyThe Genomic Landscape of the Fungus- Specific SWISNF Complex Subunit Snf6 in Candida albicansFaiza Tebbjiab Yaolin Chenc Adnane Sellamad Malcolm WhitewaybcInfectious Diseases Research Centre-CRI CHU de Quebec Research Center CHUQ University Laval Quebec City Quebec Canadaa Department of Biology McGill University Montreal Quebec Canadab Department of Biology Concordia University Montreal Quebec Canadac Department of Microbiology Infectious Disease and Immunology Faculty of Medicine University Laval Quebec City Quebec CanadadABSTRACT SWISNF is an ATP-dependent chromatin-remodeling complex that is required for the regulation of gene expression in eukaryotes.

While most of the fungal SWISNF components are evolutionarily conserved with those of the metazoan SWISNF subunits such as Snf6 are specific to certain fungi and thus represent potential antifungal targets.

However given the conservation of this chromatin-remodeling complex in humans inhibitors of the C. albicans SWISNF might also alter the function of its host counter- part.In addition to the catalytic subunit Snf2 SWISNF is made up of 11 subunits in yeast and C. albicans  .

While most members of the fungal SWISNF complex are conserved with the metazoan SWISNF subunits including Snf6 Snf11 Taf14 and Swp82 are specific to fungi .

Since SWISNF is a potential antifungal target chemical perturbation of specific fungal subunits would be a good approach to avoid cross- interaction with human SWISNF activity.

Ab antibody.ray technology ChIP-chip and transcriptional profiling microarrays to identify targets of the SWISNF complex under both yeast- and hypha-promoting conditions.RESULTSThe ORF C203930CA encodes the SWISNF fungus-specific subunit Snf6.

In the budding yeast Snf6 is a unique subunit of SWISNF in contrast to Rtt102 Arp7 andFIG 6 Conservation of fungal SWISNF complex subunits across ascomycetes.

Recruitment of SWISNF by Gcn4p does not require Snf2p or Gcn5p but depends strongly on SWISNF integrity SRB mediator and SAGA.

Our data showed that although there was low con- servation of its protein sequence with other fungal orthologs Snf6 was copuri- fied with bona fide SWISNF complex subunits.

