lactobacillusspecies were found to improve survival in a colorectal cancer mouse model and reduce postoperative complications in col- orectal cancer surgery clinical trials.18 such protection may result from activation of the immune system against cancer cells specifically anti-inflammatory treg cells13 and th17 and innate immune pathways.

otherprotective mechanisms of bacteria against cancer include triggering of apoptosis in cancer cells antioxidant scavenging of free radicals and induction of tumour suppressor genes.18 this bacterial activation of the immune system may improve immune surveillance of cancer and lead to decreased risk of disease.21the effects of gastrointestinal bacteria are not limited to cancers within the digestive tract.

a healthy vaginal microbiome dominated by lactobacillus species may have a protective effect and therapeutic potential.the gut microbiome and cancerof the 500-1000 different species of gut bacteria in any individual human several are known to affect carcinogene- sis.4 helicobacter pylori has been linked to gastric adenocar- cinoma and gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue malt lymphoma due to its ability to induce chronic inflammation leading to malignant transformation of b cells.5 antibiotic treatment to eradicate the h. pylori infec- tion is often sufficient to treat localised gastric malt lym- phoma.6 similarly immunoproliferative small intestinal disease ipsid lymphoma has been successfully treated by antibiotic elimination of campylobacter jejuni infection.7 fusobacterium and providencia have been associated with the colon cancer microbiome which also has increased diversity compared with healthy colon tissue.89chronic inflammation at the site of tumorigenesis appears to be the main mechanism by which specific bacte- rial species contribute to the development of cancer.

in particular th17 pathwayshave been identified to play a role in tumorigenesis and are known to be induced by helicobacter.13 mouse models have linked additional species with cancer and have shown that the rate of cancer growth can be increased or decreased in germ-free or antibiotic-treated mice.14 another mouse study showed that the composition of the microbiome directly impacts tumorigenesis and progression.15although many studies have highlighted the role of gut microflora in carcinogenesis several other investigations sug- gest that some bacteria may have a protective role against development of certain cancers.

it is well known that certain strains of hpvsignificantly increase the risk of cervical cancer.4142 oneaffect the microbiome and it was found that women with semi-western-style diets as opposed to a diet rich in fish and vegetables had a higher rate of cin.48in addition to its effects on cervical cancer the microbiome may impact the risk of cancer by other mechanisms as well such as prevention of chronic infection associated with cervi- cal neoplasia.52 although the pathogenesis of endometrial can- cer most commonly involves oestrogen excess there is also a demonstrated link between pelvic inflammatory disease and53endometrial cancer.the vaginal microbiome and bacterialstudy showed that women who have been infected withhpv had microbiomes with greater bacterial diversity43 specifically abundant in l. gasseri and g. vaginalis.

a handful of studies have examined the association between the vaginal microbiome and cervical intraepithelial neo- plasia cin see table 1. in general microbiomes rich incrispatus were associated with healthy patients.47-49 lac- tobacillus iners on the other hand was associated with cer- vical cancer alone48 or in conjunction with hpv infection47 as well as higher grades of cin in hpv-positive patients.50 conversely another study found that l. iners was associated with reduced risk of squamous intraepithe- lial lesions and cervical cancer.49 other species of lacto- bacillus were also variably associated with cin.5051 a diverse array of less abundant bacterial species were associ- ated with cin including atopobium vaginae4748 g. vagi- nalis47 fusobacterium49 and others.51 cytokine profiling revealed higher local levels of interleukin il-4 and trans- forming growth factor tgf-b1 mrnas in microbiomes49correlation between the uterine microbiome composition and endometrial cancer.57 in particular a. vaginae and a porphy- romonas species were associated with cancer.clinical considerationsthe growing importance of the microbiome in cancer and other diseases58 encourages potential therapy that reinstates or maintains healthy microbiota.59 probiotics can maintain or reform a healthy balance of bacterial species.

bacteria and cancer cause coincidence or cure a review j transl med 2006414.von hertzen lc joensuu h haahtela t. microbial deprivation inflammation and cancer.

cancer metastasis rev 201130211-23.schwabe rf jobin c. the microbiome and cancer.

asian pac j cancer prev 2014154449-54.zhong l zhang x covasa m. emerging roles of lactic acid bacteria in protection against colorectal cancer.

further we suggest that it may be possible to expand the use of probiotics in the treatment of gynaecological cancers.keywords cervical cancer cervical intraepithelial neoplasia human papillomavirus lactobacillus probiotics vaginal microbiome.tweetable abstract a review of the research to date on the relation between the vaginal microbiome and gynaecological cancers.linked article this article is commented on by nc ramchander and ej crosbie.

the role of the vaginal microbiome in gynaecological cancer.

bjog 2018125309-315.introductionwhile a well balanced vaginal microbiome is known to pre- vent vulvo-vaginal infections recent evidence suggests that the state of the vaginal microbiome could influence the development of cancer.

for example streptococcus bovis is involved in the pathogenesis of colonic neoplasia10 via chronic inflammation by the11the vaginal microbiomethe vaginal microbiome comprises a diverse array of bacte- rial species usually between 20 and 140 in any particular individual with marked variation between individuals and over time.2627 vaginal microbiomes can be classifiedinnate immune system.similarly inflammation fromchronic salmonella enterica typhi infection has been associ-12according to the most dominant species of bacteria presentwhich is most commonly a species of lactobacillus.28 lacto-ated with gallbladder cancer.

maintaining a normal set of microflora has been found to be essential for these path- ways.1920 increased rates of multiple cancer types in mice14like the gut microbiome alteration of the vaginal floracould play a part in the pathogenesis of several diseases by modulating immunity or increasing the growth of pathogenic strains.31 perhaps the most important role of a healthy microbiome is in preventing vaginal infections and inflammatory conditions.

the most clear effect is how the microbiome mediates the risk of human papillomavirus hpv-induced cervical cancer.

