first the degree of genetic relatedness of full-siblings is on average around 50 but detailed analysis of sibling genomes reveals that their similarity may vary between 37 to 62.secondly expression of risk phenotypes may depend on environmental exposures that may vary between family members for example aspirin may induce increased intestinal per- meability.finally one of the advantages of family studies the capacity to examine genotype-environ- ment interactions is also a limitation in that it may not be possible to determine whether a phenotype that is shared between siblings is shared because of geno- type e.g.

healthy relatives of ibd patients provide a window into pathogenic pathways in the absence of the obfus- cating influence of established chronic cd.in our recent publication siblings of patients with crohn's disease exhibit biologically relevant dysbiosis in mucosal microbial metacommunities we used 16s rrna gene targeted high-throughput sequencing to test the hypothesis that dysbiosis exists in the mucosal microbiota of healthy siblings of cd patients and is therefore not merely a consequence of estab- lished disease.

despite these limitations studies of healthy at-risk relatives of patients with cd may uniquely contribute to the illu- mination of pathogenic pathways that are not easily discernible in studying patients with established disease.we showed that core microbiota of both cd patients and healthy siblings were significantly less diverse compared with healthy unrelated controls.

and f. prausnitziifigure 1. dendrogram showing the microbial community dissim- ilarity between the 3 groups the composition of the whole microbiota as determined by bray-curtis index is more similar between patients and their healthy siblings than between healthy siblings and healthy controls and this pattern is driven by similarity in the core microbiota between patients and siblings rather than the rare microbiota.which was lower in siblings median 9.27 iqr 8.12-9.78 log10 copiesg compared with controls median 9.59 iqr 9.34-10.14 log10 copiesg p d 0.048 as well as between patients median 6.88 iqr 5.03-9.35 log10 copiesg compared with controls p d 0.006 .thus the finding of sibling dys- biosis including reduced abundance of f. prausnitzii is robust having been demonstrated in analyses using different techniques 454 pyrosequencing and qpcr and in both mucosa-associated and faecal microbiotathere has been intense speculation regarding the role of f. prausnitzii in cd pathogenesis as it is the only microbial factor shown to be predictive of the natural history of cdand of the response to treatment.it may be speculated that loss of f. praus- nitzii could result in the loss of key functions that contribute to gut health for example the production of short-chain fatty acids in particular butyrateand nfkb-mediated effects.however we would be cau- tious in constructing pathogenic hypotheses based on the functions of this particular species rather inter- preting these data as implicating that loss of f. praus- nitzii is a sensitive indicator of a broader change in the gut microbiota.

4 359-365addendumthe gut microbiota of siblings offers insights into microbial pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseasecharlotte r. hedin christopher j. van der gast andrew j. stagg james o. lindsay and kevin whelanadepartment of medicine karolinska university hospital solna stockholm bmanchester metropolitan university school of healthcare science manchester uk cqueen mary university of london centre for immunobiology blizard institute london uk dbarts health nhs trust department of gastroenterology london uk eking's college london faculty of life sciences  medicine diabetes and nutritional sciences division london ukarticle historyreceived 29 november 2016 revised 10 january 2017 accepted 16 january 2017keywordscrohn's disease microbiome faecalibacterium prausnitzii siblings inflammatory bowel disease bifidobacteriain contrast to skin lung or eye where barrier function is prioritised and the range of substances targeted for absorption are limited the surface of the gut has uniquely evolved to actively interact with a wide vari- ety of ingested constituents of the host's environment.

recent data in animal models supports the role for the gut immune system in shap- ing the microbiota and suggests that this effect may be at least in part dependent on a pathway involving both polyreactive and bacteria-specific secretory igaas well as mediated through gut epithelial cells and hopxc cell-derived mirnas which enter bacte- ria and regulate bacterial gene expression and growth in turn affecting the microbiota composition and sus- ceptibility to colitis.furthermore specific snps have been associated with gut microbiota composition in a cohort of healthy relatives.we have shown that perturbations in the mucosal gut microbiota occur not only in individuals withcrohn's disease but also in otherwise healthy individu- als at elevated risk of crohn's disease thus dysbiosis is not merely a consequence of inflammation.

such influences may be effected through factors including microbial molecular transfer mediated by maternal immunoglobulins transmitted both trans-placentally and through lacta- tion.defining the interrelated processes of human immune development and microbial acquisition may have a significant impact on our understanding of the pathogenesis of ibd.given the factors discussed above it may be hypothesized that environmental factors impact on the acquisition of the gut microbiota during the prena- tal neonatal or early childhood period which in turn creates a persistent inflammatory immune tone thus laying the foundations for future ibd risk.

gut 2012 612311-8pmid21dicksved j halfvarson j rosenquist m jeurarnerot g tysk c apajalahti j engstrand l jansson jk.

isme j 2008 27716-27 li q wang c tang c li n li j. molecular-phylogenetic characterization of the microbiota in ulcerated and non- ulcerated regions in the patients with crohn's disease.

plos one 2012 74 e34939 pmid22529960 barnich n denizot j and darfeuille-michaud a e. coli- mediated gut inflammation in genetically predisposed crohn's disease patients.

plosgenet 2006 23e41 pmid16565746 soderholm jd olaison g lindberg e hannestad u vindels a tysk c jeurarnerot g sjeurodahl r. different intes- tinal permeability patterns in relatives and spouses of patients with crohn's disease an inherited defect in mucosal defence gut 1999 44196-100pmid9862833 le chatelier e nielsen t qin j prifti e hildebrand f falony g almeida m arumugam m batto jm kennedy s et al.

nature 2009 4577228480-4 ahn j sinha r pei z dominianni c wu j shi j goe- dert jj hayes rb yang l. human gut microbiome and risk for colorectal cancer.

gut 2016 653415-25 pmid26045134 assa a butcher j li j elkadri a sherman pm muise am stintzi a mack d. mucosa-associated ileal micro- biota in new-onset pediatric crohn's disease.

however genetic and microbiome studies have challenged this dogma for example some studies support a difference between small intestinal-restricted and colonic-involving cd.a genetic predisposition to ibd is fundamental andrelatives of patients are at enhanced risk of developing ibd themselves.the interaction between the gut microbiota and the gut immune system is pivotal inibd pathogenesisand in patients with ibd abnor- malities can be demonstrated in both the gut immune system and the gut microbiota dysbiosis as well as alterations in intestinal permeability and increased concentrations of neutrophil-derived calprotectin in faeces.however whether dysbiosis has a role in dis- ease pathogenesis or is merely consequent to inflam- mation cannot be determined by examining only individuals with established ibd.

however there are also potential mechanisms by which e. coli may be increased opportunistically as a consequence of cd such as the increased activity of nitric oxide synthases associated with inflammation which could favor the survival of these nitrate-reducing bacteria orcontact kevin whelanking's college london 150 stamford street london se1 9nh united kingdom.

