they observed that phage p10 requires the help of an intermediate bacterial host found in the mouse gut to adapt to the previously resistant bacterial strain which could help to understand some of the underlying processes behind phage persistence in the gut.

between the in vitro and in vivo responsesdue to phage adaptation to a more com- plex environment such as the mouse gut are tail fibers the mutation hotspot of gut phages in active interaction withtheir bacterial hosts and can mutationanalysis of phages' tail fiber regions be prospectively used to improve our under- standing of phage-bacteria interactions in the human gut.

going for- ward several questions remain to be pursued are the differencesfigure 1. transmission of a phage to a new bacterium mediated by an intermediate hosta point mutation that changes adenine blue to guanine green in the phage tail fiber region facilitates the adaptation of the phage to a new bacterial host.

in this issue of cell host  microbe provide insights into phage-bacteria interactions finding that microbial communities contribute to phage persistence in the mammalian gut by supplying new hosts.the human gut is the densest microbial habitat known containing trillions of mi- croorganisms bacteria phages or bac- terial viruses viruses fungi etc.. these microbes are not pathogens or quies- cent bystanders but contribute to im- mune modulation pathogen protection food digestion and synthesis of vita- mins among other functions.

to avoid phage infection and killing of the cell there is a selective pressure for the bacterium to alter its re- ceptors and subsequently for the phage to modify its tail fibers  .

in addition the authors observed that the adaptation process differently affects phage p10 variants some variants showed a narrower host range compared to the wild-type strain while others had a broader host range confirming that the heterogeneity in the viral population increases their ability to adapt to new environments.snp analysis allowed to find that the muta- tion patterns are different when phage p10 replicates in vitro rela- tive to in vivo.

phages may regulate bacterial physiology diver- sity and abundance in the gut as they do in other ecosystems thereby influ- encing our health  .phages owe their specificity to a key and lock interaction mechanism between the phage's tail fibers and their cognate bacterial surface receptors.

they used comparative popula- tion genomics to study the interactions between a virulent phage p10 its bac- terial host and a bacterial strain resis- tant to p10 both in vitro using liquid cul- tures and in vivo in the mouse gut.

this is726 cell host  microbe 22 december 13 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc.cell host  microbepreviewsan exciting and novel finding as further studying this recombina- tion process and its frequency in phage genomes could shed some light on the evolution of phages in complex ecosystems such as the human gut.

cell host  microbepreviewsthe mammalian gut as a matchmakermohammadali khan mirzaeiand corinne f. maurice1department of microbiology and immunology microbiome and disease tolerance centre mcgill university montreal canadacorrespondence dynamics of phages and bacteria in the gut may play key roles in human health.

phage tail fibers an appendant of the tail are responsible for the recognition of and binding to the bacterial host.

without specific receptors on the host cell sur- face a phage fails to adsorb  .

togenerate diversity phages can use ge- netic rearrangement via mutation and recombination with other phage ge- nomes bacterial dna or plasmids  .

tail fibers and resistance genes in bacteria .the specific host range all bacteria that a phage can infect of phages is forged out of the evolutionary back and forth between phages and bacteria  .

understanding phage host range is an important step in understanding phage-bacteria inter- actions but this is met with challenges in experimental studies.

