these studies further highlight the potential roles of the gut microbiome on diet- induced effects on the brain and behavior.prebiotic probiotic and other microbe-based interventions for the brain-gut-microbiome axismultiple studies in this named series highlight the role the microbiome may play on diet-induced effects on the brain and behavior.

colonizing the sfb-negative mice with exogenous sfb resulted in significant reductions in brain infarcts  again demonstrat- ing the profound interactions between the gut microbiota immune system functioning and brain biology.conclusiontaken together this named series serves to remind us of the importance of the microbiome in regulating key aspects of immu- nity brain and behavior.

while emotional disorders such as anxiety and depression have been often been linked to alterations in the gut microbiota studies in this named series identify new domains involving interactions between the microbiota brain behavior and immu- nity including schizophrenia traumatic brain injury and stroke.

this realization supports studies sug- gesting that probiotics including probiotics targeting inflamma- tion in the gut may become viable treatment options for traumatic brain injury with future development.other neurological diseases such as stroke also seem to be linked to the gut microbiota.

the link between the gut microbiome and traumatic brain injury was further explored by  who showed that brain injury is often asso- ciated with dysregulation of gastrointestinal physiology and intestinal inflammation.

altered gut microbiota can in turn lead to enhanced immune system functioning perhaps even microglia mediated neuroinflammation thus demonstrating a loop in whichtraumatic brain injury affects the microbiota and the microbiota in turn affect the symptoms of traumatic brain injury.

the studies also show that dietary effects on brain behavior and immunity often involve alterations of the gut microbiota.

this finding reinforces the notion that differences in neurotransmitter levels and behavior are influenced by gut microbes and further suggests that probiotic microbes may have beneficial effects on neurodevel- opment during infancy.infancy is not the only period during the lifespan where gut microbes can impact the brain behavior and immunity.

this immunization paradigm that involves inducing an active immune response reinforces the role of the immune system in brain- gut-microbiome interaction.brain behavior immunity and the microbiome moving towards human translationanimal studies demonstrating the impact that prebiotics and probiotics can have on diseases involving the brain behavior and immunity have led to clinical studies emerging along with the con- cept of psychobiotics .

additional studies are needed to understand the set of factors that determine which probiotics will be effective for which types of individuals with which types of diseases.new domains involving brain behavior immune and microbiome interactionsin addition to being linked to the mycobiome schizophrenia has also recently been associated with alterations in the gut micro- biome.

brief commentarythe microbiome as a key regulator of brain behavior and immunity commentary on the 2017 named seriesmichael t. bailey  john f. cryan a center for microbial pathogenesis the research institute at nationwide children's hospital columbus oh 43205 united statesb department of pediatrics the ohio state university college of medicine columbus oh 43210 3 united statesc institute for behavioral medicine research the ohio state university college of medicine columbus oh 43210 united statesd apc microbiome institute university college cork cork irelande department of anatomy and neuroscience university college cork cork irelanda r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 21 august 2017accepted 22 august 2017available online 23 august 2017keywords microbiome gut-brain-axis probiotic prebioticdieta b s t r a c t the focus on the microbiome for the 2017 named series in brain behavior and immunity reflects the rapidly growing interest in commensal microbes and the effects that they can have on physiological pro- cesses often studied in psychoneuroimmunology research.

the increase in brain cytokines was associated with lower brain derived neurotrophic factor bdnf and increased anxiety-like behavior in adult offspring from gesta- tional stress .

the studies included in this named series show that commensal microbes can impact immune system activity as well as brain and behavioral pro- cesses across the lifespan and are involved in behavioral and immunological responses to social stresses.

moreover infection studies long the cornerstone of psy- choneuroimmunology began to highlight the importance of microbe-immune-gut-brain signalling   so that it has become clear that the immune system is a key conduit for the effects of the microbiome on brain and behavior  .

studies within the named series further shed light on the potential usefulness of prebiotics and probiotics on diseases involving the brain behavior and immunity.

