gut microbiota are required for diet-induced weight gain figure 2a with germ-free mice gaining minimal weight despite a high fatsugar diet whereas identical mice containing gut bacteria become obese.34 dysbiosis characterised by reduction in the abundance of bacteroidetes and an increasein firmicutes reversing their normal ratio has been implicated in murine and human obesity35 however two recent meta-analysesfigure 1. severe clostridium difficile infection in a patient aged 79 years.pseudomembranous colitis b. five days after faecal microbiota transplantof pooled human studies failed to identify these changes in bacterial phyla with only minor reductions in microbial diversity and richness seen.3637 nevertheless obese and lean metabolic phenotypes in mice can be transmitted via fmt figure 2b3839 a process more dependent on microbiota than genetics figure 2c as fmt from identical twins discordant for obesity still led to transmission of the lean or obese phenotype in mice.40 co-housing the two groups where mice ate each other's faeces led to alean phenotype hypothesised to be due to re-invasion of specific bacteroidetes into obese mice.40 in a recent study in patients with metabolic syndrome fmt from a lean donor improved insulin sensitivity in just six weeks an effect in part driven by increased butyrate-producing gut bacteria.41non-alcoholic fatty liver diseasein addition to the microbiota changes of obesity alterations in gut bacteria in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld and non-alcoholic steato-hepatitis nash are associated withintestinal bacterial translocation leading to increased delivery of lipopolysaccharides free fatty acids and other toxins directly to the liver from the portal vein.42 furthermore patients with nash have a greater abundance of the escherichia family of bacteria a group that ferments carbohydrates and produces endogenous ethanol.43 this leads to increased alcohol levels peripherally a possibleco-factor in the pathogenesis of fatty liver disease.

the most well-studied bacterial probiotics are those of the lactobacillus bifidobacterium and lactococcusspecies while the most commonly used yeast is saccharomyces boulardii.12 probiotics colonise the gut temporarily and may exert beneficial effects through enhancement of the natural intestinal barrier both physical and mucous layer stimulation of iga secretion downregulation of inflammatory cytokine production and direct antagonism of pathogens.45 on the basis of meta-analyses of randomised controlled trials probiotics are modestly effective for reducing global symptoms in ibs number needed to treat nnt  832 and in reducing antibiotic-associated diarrhoea in children aged one month to 18 years nnt 1046 and adults up to age 64 relative risk  0.47 but not in the elderly.47 the duration of probiotic use 5-21 days did not alter the benefit and to varying degrees results were strain-specific the biggest benefit was conferred from lactobacillus and s. boulardii.47 for other diseases results may be preparation-specific with only the expensive combination probiotic vsl3 eight species of lactobacillusfigure 2. obesity and the microbiomegerm-free mice are resistant to diet-induced obesity b. metabolic phenotype is transmissible via microbiota transplant with lean donors producing lean mice and obese donors producing obese mice c. microbiota transplant from identical twins discordant for obesity also transmit metabolic phenotype to germ-free mice however when co-housed the lean phenotype predominates gf germ-free l lean n normal o obesebifidobacterium and streptococcus 130 being effective for prevention and treatment of pouchitis in ibd following colectomy22 and lactobacillus casei and a mixed research preparation ofl.

cell host microbe 2012125611-22.collado mc rautava s isolauri e salminen s. gut microbiota a source of novel tools to reduce the risk of human disease pediatr res 2015771-2182-88.huurre a kalliomaki m rautava s rinne m salminen s isolauri e. mode of delivery - effects on gut microbiota and humoral immunity.

information about treatments that affect the gut microbiome including probiotics and faecal microbiota transplant are discussed.discussionrillions of bacteria viruses fungi archaea and eukaryotic organisms live within the human gastrointestinal tract and make up what is collectively called the gut microbiome.

thus it is in the colon where the overwhelming majority 1012 of the microbiota live and interact with the human host.

often known asprebiotics examples of these foods include cereal grains asparagus leeks artichokes legumes cabbage and kale.12 gut microbiotacan also communicate with the central nervous system through multiple pathways including the vagus nerve hypothalamic- pituitary-adrenal axis the production of neurotransmitters or their precursors including serotonin tryptophan gamma-aminobutyric acid dopamine l-dopa and noradrenaline and via hormones such as cortisol ghrelin leptin and glucagon-like peptide -1.13protective immune functionsnormal gut microbiota are our first internal line of defence against pathogens and toxins protecting the body against disease in tandem with the host immune system.

following a 2013 publication from the academic medical center in amsterdam18 correcting underlying dysbiosis through faecal microbiota transplant fmt has been shown to be more effectiveand durable than antibiotic therapy for recurrent cdi.

a number of studies are underway to assess the role of probiotics fmt or other gut-modulating procedures in patients with nafld.altering the gut-microbiomefaecal microbiota transplantfmt was first used in modern medicine in 1958 when four patients with pseudomembranous colitis were cured by faecal enema.44 evidence exists for the role of fmt in recurrent cdi and there is emerging evidence for its role in ibd and metabolic disease.15 the process behind fmt is relatively simple.

minireview gut microbiota the neglected endocrine organ.

microbiol mol biol rev 2004684686-91.leblanc jg milani c de giori gs sesma f van sinderen d ventura m. bacteria as vitamin suppliers to their host a gut microbiota perspective.

curr opin biotechnol 2013242160-68.gallo a passaro g gasbarrini a landolfi r montalto m. modulation of microbiota as treatment for intestinal inflammatory disorders an update.

world j gastroenterol 201622327186-202.scheperjans f. gut microbiota 1013 new pieces in the parkinson's disease puzzle.

j allergy clin immunol 20011084516-20.choi hh cho y-s. fecal microbiota transplantation current applications effectiveness and future perspectives.

faecal microbiota transplant for recurrent clostridium difficile infection using long-term frozen stool is effective clinical efficacy and bacterial viability data.

aliment pharmacol ther 20154281011-18.lopez j grinspan a. fecal microbiota transplantation for inflammatory bowel disease.

