sand flies were fed sucrose or a blood meal blood-fed sand flies or a blood meal combined with l. infantum amastigotes l. infantum-infected sand flies.results of 16s rdna sequencing were analyzed for each experimental condition on different days of the experiment.

sand flies fed only sucrose harbored the highest number of otus compared to blood-fed or l. in- fantum-infected sand flies .

by day 12 pseudomonadaceae comprised only 3 of the bacterial microbiome in l. in- fantum-infected sand flies compared to 36 in blood-fed sand flies .

the data revealed that members of the actinobacteria phylum account significantly for the divergence of the microbiome of l. infantum-infected sand flies from the microbiome of either blood-fed or sucrose-fed sand flies .

levels of pathways that allow microbes to acquire po 3- and fe3 via atp-binding cassette abc transport systems were pre- dicted to be significantly lower p  0.005 in the microbiota of l. infantum-infected sand flies than in the microbiota of blood-fed sand flies .a decrease in midgut microbiota impaired leishmania survival in the sand fly.

s2.quantification of parasites in midguts from sand flies revealed that parasite repli- cation was impaired after only 24 h following antibiotic treatment compared to the level seen with control untreated infected sand flies .

proportions of metacyclics were significantly lower on days 9 p value  0.005 and 12 p value  0.001 in antibiotic-fed flies than in control infected sand flies .

were identified only in sucrose-fed flies and not in blood-fed or infected flies.

in future studies it will be essential to determine by sequence analysis the similarity between the midgut microbiomes of laboratory-reared sand flies and wild-caught sand flies from neighborhoods where l. infantum infection is endemic and whether some bacteria can substitute for others in supporting the growth and differ- entiation of leishmania spp.

sucrose-fed blood-fed and amastigote-containing-blood-fed groups of sand flies were rinsed in pbs and individual sand flies were dissected in a sterile pool of pbs on a glass slide.

research articlethe gut microbiome of the vector lutzomyia longipalpis is essential for survival of leishmania infantumpatrick h. kellya sarah m. bahra tiago d. serafimb nadim j. ajamicjoseph f. petrosinoc claudio menesesb john r. kirbya jesus g. valenzuelab shaden kamhawib addepartments of microbiology internal medicine and epidemiology university of iowa iowa city iowa usaa vector molecular biology section laboratory of malaria and vector research national institute of allergy and infectious diseases national institutes of health rockville maryland usab department of molecular virology and microbiology alkek center for metagenomics and microbiome research baylor college of medicine houston texas usac iowa city veterans' affairs medical center iowa city iowa usadabstract the vector-borne disease leishmaniasis caused by leishmania species protozoa is transmitted to humans by phlebotomine sand flies.

sucrose-fed sand flies contained a highly diverse stable midgut microbiome.

infantum-infected sand flies.

importantly antibiotic-mediated perturbation of the midgut microbiome rendered sand flies unable to support para- site growth and metacyclogenesis.

longipalpis midgut was de- lineated by 16s ribosomal dna rdna sequencing revealing a highly diverse com- munity composition that lost diversity as parasites developed to their metacyclic state and increased in abundance in infected flies.

