in coming years cautious investigations will be needed to discover the interesting potential in this novel area.review strategythe pubmed database was searched for english-language articles using following key words gut microbiota and kidney diseases gut microbiota and hypertension microbiome and chronic allograft dysfunction microbiota and iga nephropathy and microbiota and kidney stone.

the present article aimed to investigate the association between human microbiota and kidney diseases and to understand how changes in the composition of gut microbiota rigorously affect the kidney function.

ckd leads to influx of urea uric acid and oxalate into the colon that disturbs the composition and metabolism of gut microbiota on the other hand these endotoxins are derived from dysbiotic gut microbiota and overgrowth of urease-producing bacteria.

furthermore the dysbiotic microbiota leads to reduction of scfa-producing gut microbiota and scfas production that in normal condition calibrate blood pressure and present protective effects on kidney cells.

reviewthe impact of gut microbiota on kidney function and pathogenesisfariba mahmoodpoor yalda rahbar saadat abolfazl barzegarimohammadreza ardalan sepideh zununi vaheda kidney research center tabriz university of medical sciences tabriz iranb nutrition research center tabriz university of medical sciences tabriz iranc research center for pharmaceutical nanotechnology tabriz university of medical sciences tabriz irana r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 30 march 2017received in revised form 17 june 2017 accepted 19 june 2017keywordschronic kidney disease ckd iga nephropathykidney stone hypertension uremic toxina b s t r a c tchronic kidney diseases ckds are a global health problem.

besides diverse leading reasons in initiation and progression of ckds it is evident that they might largely originate from changes in the gut microbial community microbiota.

changes in the microbiota composition and structure dysbiosis produce excessive amounts of uremic toxins e.g.

the present review focuses on the pathogenic association between gut microbiota and kidney diseases like ckd iga nephropathy and kidney stone disease.

certainly novel insights into the impact of the gut microbiota in kidney diseases can be helpful to develop therapeutic strategies in order to avoid andor treat aforementioned conditions.c 2017 elsevier masson sas.

high blood pressure reduction in erythropoietin synthesis and increased levels of metabolic acidosis end products can be seen in patients with ckds.besides different causative factors in initiation and progression of ckds it is recognized that the local and systemic consequences of kidney injury may originate from modifications in the gut microbial community microbiota and their metabolites .as a super-organism human body hosts a huge number of bacteria about 1014 that perform structural and histological functions and play significant roles in the regulation of host health maintenance and homeostasis .

as the second human genome or metagenome microbiota encodes 3.3 million unique genes that are 150-fold more than the human genome .

therefore it seems rational that altering the balance of the gut microbiota can also affect kidney physiology and pathology.

furthermore novel insight on how to balance gut microbiota by probiotics to interfere with the mechanisms leading to kidney disease development are put forward.

the pathogenic association between gut microbiota and kidney diseases like uremia iga nephropathy kidney stone disease and hypertension is illustrated in .dysbiosis and chronic kidney diseaserecently the prevalence of ckd in the general population is increasing .

1. beneficial effects of gut microbiota on human health .fig.

