these observations suggest that hepatocyte tlr5 plays a role in protecting the liver and in preventing diet-induced liver disease.dysregulation of gut mucosal surfaces can contribute to systemic microbial effectschanges in the gut microbiota can modulate systemic microbe- derived metabolite levels by affecting their biosynthesis or by changing the intestinal permeability and gut barrier.

the escape of microbial factors from the gut can result from perturbations in the gut microbiota and its interaction with immune system components that weakens the mucosal and epithelial lining of the gut.

the absence of gut microbiota leads to functional alterations in immune and intes- tinal epithelial cells which express less microbe sensing toll-like receptors tlr  and major histocompatibility complex ii molecules for antigen presentation .certain aspects of an underdeveloped less responsive gut immune system seem to have beneficial effects in obesity.

changes in gut microbiota control inflammation in obese mice through a mechanism involving glp-2-driven improvement of gut permeability.

as modulators of the immune response the microbiota-derived signals influence func- tions of distant organs and can change susceptibility to metabolic diseases.keywords gut microbiota immune system toll-like receptors short chain fatty acids mucosal barrier metabolism dysbiosismicrobiota shapes the immune system and the host metabolismthe human microbiota comprises an enormous amount and variety of microorganisms.

consequently peripheral anti- or proinflammatory responses take place and modulate host metabolism empha- sizing to which substantial extent microbiota can influence systemic health.in addition to the above discussed mechanisms bile acids which can be modified by microbiota or result from microbiota changes could modulate host metabolism   and also have immunomodulatory effects .

we highlight tlr signaling gut barrier modulation and short chain fatty acid scfa-mediated interactions as important mechanisms in this process.tlrs sense microbial productsin the gut and periphery to influence systemic immunity and metabolismone of the immune system's tasks is to decide whether a microbe is a harmless commensal or an invading and potentially patho- genic one.

 12 3 and 1241 faculty of medicine department of cell physiology and metabolism centre medical universitaire university of geneva geneva switzerland 2 diabetes center faculty of medicine centre medical universitaire university of geneva geneva switzerland 3 faculty of medicine department of pathology and immunology centre medical universitaire university of geneva geneva switzerland 4 institute of genetics and genomics in geneva ige3 university of geneva geneva switzerlandedited bymarina i. arleevskaya kazan state medical academyrussiareviewed by angela m. zivkovic university of california davisunited states francois-pierre martinnestle institute of health sciencesswitzerlandcorrespondence mirko trajkovski specialty section this article was submitted to microbial immunologya section of the journal frontiers in immunologyreceived 25 july 2017accepted 03 october 2017published 30 october 2017citation spiljar m merkler d and trajkovski m 2017 the immune system bridges the gut microbiota with systemic energy homeostasis focus on tlrs mucosal barrier and scfas.front.

81353. doi the gut microbiota is essential for the development and regulation of the immune system and the metabolism of the host.

the development of 16s rrna sequencing allowed estimates of the abundance of microbiota in greater detail revealing the gram-negative bacteroidetes and gram- positive firmicutes as the most abundant phyla in the human gut.

the immune tissues or local immune cell subsets that are in direct contact with microbiota as in the gut are different in gf animals.

this review will summarize how microbial molecules and changes in the microbiota composition are sensed by the immune system and how microbial products and consequently the immune response can spread into the circulation to cause systemic and metabolic consequences start- ing in the gut and moving toward the periphery.

while a clear explanation for this discrepancy is missing a possible reason could lay in the differences in the microbiota composition between different mouse facilities and or may depend on whether initially pro- or anti-inflammatory molecules are predominant in the local gut environment.

the level of penetration and degradation depends largely on the gut microbiota composi- tion .

conversely the microbiota-mediated increase in acetate turnover that occurs during exposure to a hfd diet might mediate a feedback loop between the gut microbiota and the parasympathetic nervous system promoting hyperphagia owing to increased ghrelin secretion and increased energy storage .

