almost all women had a spontaneous conception 90.9 and delivered a healthy baby at term 85.7. six women had a spontaneous abortion 3.9 four had a termination of pregnancy 2.6 and three delivered pre- term 1.9. the majority of subjects 56.4 were of white race.results of the microbiome analysis revealed that lactobacillus cris- patus was the most abundant bacterial species in 70 45.5 women followed by l. iners in 23 women 14.9 l. gasseri and the genus gardnerella in 17 women each 10.4 l. jensenii in 12 women 7.8 the genus streptococcus in six women 3.9 the genus bifidobacterium in five women 3.2 l. helveticus in two women 1.3 and l. acid- ophilus and l. johnsonii in one woman each 0.6. the three women with a preterm birth had a vaginal microbiota in which l. crispatus l.table 1pregnancy-related characteristics of the study population.

the composition of the vaginal microbiome in first trimester pregnant women influences the level of autophagy and stress in vaginal epithelial cellsdimitrios nasioudis larry j. forney g. maria schneider karol gliniewicz michael t. france allison boester mio sawai jessica scholl steven s. witkina division of immunology and infectious diseases department of obstetrics and gynecology weill cornell medicine new york ny united statesb department of biological sciences and institute for bioinformatics and evolutionary studies university of idaho moscow id united statesa r t i c l e i n f o keywordsautophagyheat shock protein lactobacillus crispatus stress response vaginal microbiomea b s t r a c t epithelial cells lining the vagina are major components of genital tract immunity.

the finding of strong associations between epithelial cell p62 and hsp70 levels when either lactobacilli or non-lactobacilli were most abundant in the vagina indicates that the intracellular hsp70 level has a profound influence on the extent of autophagy in vaginal epithelial cells from pregnant women.

in agreement with these findings we previously reported that vaginal epithelial cells from pregnant women who were culture-positive for group b streptococcus gbs had elevatedintracellular levels of hsp70 compared to gbs culture-negative women .

the influence of individual members of the vaginal mi- crobiota on properties of host vaginal epithelial cells has received very limited attention and is the focus of this investigation.autophagy is a basic process present in almost all eukaryotic cells to maintain intracellular homeostasis.

the high level of hsp70 as well as p62 in epi- thelial cells when streptococcus was most abundant might also be due to the fact that this organism invades epithelial cells   and so its intracellular location may influence host mediator production.

since vaginal epithelial cells are a major contributor to female genital tract homeostasis including the induction of innate immunity   a reduced autophagy capacity may result in a devia- tion in physiological functions of these cells.

we evaluated whether differences in the most abundant lactobacilli species or bacterial genera in the vagina of first trimester pregnant women were associated with variations in the extent of stress and autophagy in vaginal epithelial cells.

lactic acid also primes anti-microbial immune responses .lac- tobacilli produce bacteriocins to kill other bacteria and their adherence to vaginal epithelial cells prevents other microorganisms from binding to the cell surface .in the majority of women the abundance of only one lactobacilli species or a bacterium of another genera greatly exceeds the level ofany other microorganism in the vagina  .

there were no significant differences in the relative abundance of any bac- terial taxa between women who conceived spontaneously or following in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer.the association between the most abundant species or genera in the vaginal microbiota and the concentrations of p62 and hsp70 in vaginal epithelial cells is shown in .

lysates of vaginal epithelial cells from women when lactobacilli a or non- lactobacilli b were most abundant were tested for concentrations of p62 and hsp70 by elisa.evidence that l. crispatus may be the bacterium that best promotes vaginal well-being.intracellular hsp70 synthesis is rapidly induced when a cell en- counters a physiological stress such as detection of a potentially pa- thogenic microorganism inflammation toxic chemicals or free oxygen or nitrogen radicals .

the small number of pregnant women with a vaginal microbiota in which an organism other than l. crispatus was most abundant limits our ability to conclusively access the influence of these individual bacteria on properties of epithelial cells.

2017. properties of epithelial cells and vaginal secretions in pregnant women when lactobacillus crispatus and lactobacillus iners dominate the vaginal microbiome.reprod.

the influence of the vaginal microbiome on properties of host epithelial cells is largely unexplored.

vaginal epithelial cells were lysed and autophagy quantitated by measurement of p62.

