in bumble bees and honey bees for example social transmission of the microbiota through exposure to feces from nest mates was associated with host protection against parasitic infection koch  schmid-hempel 2011. although additional research is needed to test the causality and directionality for interactions between the microbiota and social behavior these initial studies have raised the question of whether microbiota-mediated changes in social behavior affect social transmission of the microbiota and whether there are consequences on both host and microbial fitness.

social interactions could also propagate disease- causing microorganisms highlighting a need to examine whether pathogenic and mutualistic microbes have differential effects on the manifestation of social behavior.the microbiota and autism spectrum disorderemerging research linking the microbiota to social behavior in addition to nutrition immunity and gastrointestinal function has motivated examinations of the microbiota in asd a neurode- velopmental disease characterized by impaired social communication and stereotyped behavior and associated with various medical comorbidities including gastrointestinal issues and immune dysfunction.

2015. maternal-to-offspring transmission of microbiota that impacts stress-related behavior and physiology was supported by evidence that maternal stress altered the maternal vaginal microbiota and that the inheritance of such microbiota abnormalities was sufficient to induce negative thigmotactic behavior in the offspring  jasarevic et al.

ultrasonic vocalizations aggression mating juvenile play would provide greater insight into the nature of social behaviors affected by the microbiota.links between the microbiota and social behavior are supported by additional studies that examine disruptions in the composition of the gut microbiota rather than the complete absence of microbes as in gf mice.

transplantation of the microbiota from offspring of high-fat diet-fed mothers into gf mice re- capitulated social deficits whereas transplantation of standard microbiota into gf mice corrected social deficits.

this effect of the conventional microbiota on regulating social behavior could be mediated by the indigenous gut bacterium lactobacillus reuteri which was reduced in the gut microbiota of high-fat diet offspring compared to controls.

additional studies are needed to elucidate clear molecular and cellular signaling pathways between gut bacteria and the central nervous system and to determine whether microbial modulation of social behavior is host or context dependent.reciprocal interactions between social behavior and the microbiotain addition to studies that support an effect of the microbiota on modulating social behavior there is also evidence that social behavior itself shapes the microbiota.

2012. although these findings suggest that exposure to stressors can alter the composition of the gut microbiota many studies indicate that the microbiota can in turn influence stress-related behavior such as freezing reduced exploration and thigmotaxis as manifestations of the fight-or-flight response table 2. to date exploratory drive and risk avoidance have been the most frequently studied behaviors in microbiome depletion and probiotic treatment paradigms.

taken together these findings reveal potential bidirectional interactions between the microbiota and stress behavior that may affect host responses to situational stressors.conventionalization of young but not adult gf mice with standard spf microbiota sufficientlyreversed abnormalities in exploratory behavior diaz heijtz et al.

2011.the importance of the early-life microbiota on programming later-life behavior is supported further by studies on the effects of maternal insults on the development of offspring microbiota and behavior.

2015. moreover in mouse models of inflammatory boweltable 2interactions between the microbiota stress-related behavior and anxietytable 2continued table 2continued table 2continued abbreviations acth adrenocorticotropic hormone dss dextran sodium sulfate ex-gf ex-germ-free conventionalized with spf microbiota gf germ-free hads hospital anxiety and depression scale hpa hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal lps lipopolysaccharide na not applicable nod nonobese diabetic spf specific pathogen-free sst succinylsulfathiazole.disease and immunodeficiency rag1-- mice treatment with l. helveticus r0052 and lactobacillus rhamnosus r0011 corrected light-aversion behavior in the light-dark box emge et al.

the microbiome and host behavior41amygdalar structure and gene expressionalthough the molecular mechanisms underlying how the microbiota modifies host social behavior are unclear evidence suggests the microbiota alters the neurophysiology of brain areas considered key nodes for social and anxiety behavior networks including the amygdala and hypothalamus goodson 2005. stereological analysis revealed significantly increased volume across the lateral and basolateral amygdala and central nucleus of the amygdala in brains from gf mice compared to spf controls luczynski et al.

however molecular mechanisms linking l. reuteri to changes in hy- pothalamic oxytocin expression remain unknown and whether the effects of the microbiota on hypothalamic oxytocin levels and synaptic strength are specific to this bacterium in particular is unclear.other studies raise the notion that select metabolic products from the gut microbiota caninfluence social behavior.

these abnormalities were not corrected by conventionalization of gf mice with an spf microbiota at weaning suggesting an effect of the microbiota on myelination during developmental ages which aligns with reports that myelin formation begins on postnatal day 10. consistent with microbial effects on prefrontal cortical myelination stress-exposed nod mice exhibited altered prefrontal cortex myelin gene expression and amounts of myelinated fibers that were prevented by antibiotic treatment.

all rights reservedkeywordsmicrobiota gut-brain axis neurodevelopment autism anxiety depressionabstractthe microbiota is increasingly recognized for its ability to influence the development and function of the nervous system and several complex host behaviors.

