finally as advanced age is associated with both muscle loss sarcopenia and microbiome dybiosis such a therapeutic approach holds the potential of slowing the onset of several metabolic and structuraldeficits inflicted by aging in elderly people.the potential for precise therapeutic interventions that target microbial-mitochondrial metabolic communication provides a novel avenue for the treatment of many metabolic disturbances and could have profound implications for the future of medical treatments.

bu- tyrate and urolithin a may thus act synergistically at the level of the mitochondrion and by mere virtue of muscle's sheer predominance preferentially influence muscle function and enhancement of systemic metabolism strengthening the muscle-microbiome bond.

this perspective underscores one fundamental facet of this symbiosis the ancestral mitochondrion-microbiome axis.keywords scfa butyrate ellagitannins lactate metabolic microbiome mitochondria muscle short-chain fatty acids urolithin autrient metabolism is a function shared by both the microbiome and mitochon- dria.

these results raise the provocative possibility of targeting muscle for systemic metabolic improvement via specific nutritional intervention aimed at the microbiome.

the ability of specified microbiome lactobacilli to metabolize polyphenols found in certain fruits  or fermented soy  which work in concert with scfas such as butyrate   to enhance muscle oxidative capacity by stimulating mitochondria can potentially be exploited to produce a form of metabolic stabilization somewhat reminiscent of that exerted by physical activity.

2015. pomegranate ellagitannins stimulate growth of gut bacteria in vitro implications for prebiotic and metabolic effects.

thus the host is now the body and its resident mitochondria and the microbiome is an essential supplier of metabolites that act at the level of mitochondria in skeletal muscle to stabilize host metabolism.

we humans are care- takers of a profoundly vast and diverse microbiota the majority of which resides in the gut.

in recent years it has become increasingly evident that the gut microbiome produces metabolites that influence mitochondrial function and biogenesis i.e.

muscle represents proportionately our largest tissue mass and hence our greatest unified site of mitochondria as well as one of our most metabolically active tissues.

both mitochondrion and muscle functions are posi- tively impacted by physical activity and diet.

an obvious systems biology link couples muscle health to microbial activity and vice versa.

on the other hand both butyrate  and urolithin a   enhance skeletal muscle's oxidative capacity and mitochondrial function.

these results corroborate a muscle-microbiome reinforce- ment from either direction.of particular interest probiotic supplementation with lactobacillus plantarum twk10 exerts potent effects over muscle performance and oxidative capacity  as well as an increase in colonic scfa content .

skeletal muscle activity via its capacity to release myokines that quench systemic inflammation increase fatty acid oxidation and promote mitochondriogenesis also promotes microbiome diversity  .

