however tyrosine hy- droxylase an enzyme critical for cch biosynthesis from tyrosine immunoreactivity persists in the gi tract after extrinsic denerva- tion  and this suggests that intrinsic catechol- aminergic synthesis and signaling could also be involved in modulating gi immune responses.in addition to the direct effects that cchs can have on the regulation of immune responses similar effects can occur via modulation of their availability in the gi tract.

thus direct produc- tion of neuroactive molecules by gut microbes also has the potential to modulate ens activity but this has not been specif- ically addressed.the bacteroides genus also has immunoregulatory effects in the gi tract and studies have predominantly been focused onb.

the gi tract represents a direct portal to the molecular universe and the unique juxtaposi- tion of its nervous and immune systems suggests a vital role for neuro-immune interactions in the gut.structural anatomy of the gi tractdigestion absorption and secretion in the gi tract primarily occur in the stomach and small and large intestines.

however because the ens can initiate its own neuronal reflexes independently of extrinsic inputs it is possible that intrinsic circuitry alone can in- fluence immune function and similar neuro-immune interactions existing in the spleen and the periphery could also exist in the gi tract.iecs like immune cells are in close proximity to neuronal pro- jections in the mucosa.

curiously il-6 and its receptor promote the growth and survival of enteric neurons in culture aeur but just as il-6 has both pro- and anti-inflammatory effects in the peripheral immune system  it could also have dichot- omous effects on the ens.as detailed previously neurotransmitters and neuropeptides alter immune function.

for example gdnf promotes enteric neuronfigure 4. interactions between gi immune cells and the ensextrinsic nerves intrinsic neurons and enteric glial cells are in close proximity to each other and to the immune cells in the gi tract.

however the role of the ens and gi-resident immune functions are currently understudied as conduits for the gut-brain effect and the abundance of immune cells in the gi tract and the vast connectivity of the ens and its direct con- nectivity to the cns make it unlikely that the axis is independent of these interactions.the microbiota has been shown to be altered during intestinal inflammation and immunological disease.

ilc3s were also found in close proximity to egcs and as previous studies also pre- sented  tlr activation induced expression of gfls.

finally the intrinsic ens is the expan- sive network of neurons and glia along the gi tract these can function autonomously but are also tunable by the ens's con- nectivity to extrinsic sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves .

thus gut microbesand specifically microbial gus activity can shape the molecular activity and availability of cchs in the gi tract and this could ultimately affect how leukocytes behave.remarkably bacteria also express functional adrenergic re- ceptors qsec and qsee through which epinephrine and norepi- nephrine regulate expression of virulence genes in enteric path- ogens  .

interestingly these mice also express lower levels of il-4 and il-13 resulting in the de- layed clearance of intestinal parasites .although the vagus and pelvic nerves have connections along the length of the gi tract where some nerve endings directly innervate the mucosa they are not the only source of intestinal ach.

gf mice not only have fewer eecs   but also have altered neuropeptide levels in the cns  and gi tract .

it has also long been established that in the gi tract mast cells and enterochromaffin cells a specific eec are the major sources of 5-ht  .

these data show that similar neural paradigms observed in the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway could also affect the levels of 5-ht and histamine in the gi tract but similar shortcomings in mechanistic understanding persist such as the contribution of adrenergic signals from extrinsic sympathetic nerves versus those that are produced intrinsically.

given the diversity and reciprocity of extracellular signaling molecules in the gi tract the ens has evolved over time to receive and interpret these diverse cues and transmit them throughout the gi tract and ultimately the entire body.

