collectively these data suggest that circulating levels of the meta-organismal metabolite tmao are closely correlated with t2dm risk in humans.plasma tmao levels in mice and fmo3 mrna expression in men demonstrate positive correlations with obesityfirst using a systems genetics approach in mice we examined various obesity-related traits and circulating tmao levels in mice from the hybrid mouse diversity panel hmdp fed an obesogenic high fat and high sucrose diet parks et al.

boxes represent the 25th 50th and 75th percentiles of plasma choline concentration and whiskers represent the 10th and 90th percentiles.forest plots of the odds ratio of prevalent t2dm and quartiles of tmao bars represent 95 confidence intervals.forest plots of the odds ratio of prevalent t2dm and quartile of choline bars represent 95 confidence intervals.schugar et al.page 16figure 2. plasma tmao levels in mice and fmo3 mrna expression in men demonstrate positive correlations with obesitypanels a-d correlation of plasma trimethylamine-n-oxide tmao levels with obesity- related traits in 180 male mice from 92 inbred strains within the hybrid mouse diversity panel hmdp after 8 week feeding of a high fat and high sucrose diet.

collectively these data demonstrate that provision of dietary tmao can reverse a portion but not all of the transcriptional reorganization observed in whiteschugar et al.page 7adipose tissue driven by fmo3 knockdown and suggest that future studies should investigate the role of additional fmo3 products or substrates in energy metabolism.genetic deletion of the tmao-producing enzyme fmo3 protects mice from obesityto further examine the role of fmo3 in obesity we examined global fmo3 knockout fmo3-- mice generated using crispr-cas9-mediated gene editing shih et al.

2017. using a metabolomics platform miao and colleagues recently showed that mice with selective hepatic insulin resistance liver insulin receptor knockout mice lirko have elevated levels of circulating tmao and a profound upregulation of the tmao-producing enzyme fmo3 in the liver miao et al.

2015. in addition to these findings in lirko mice dietary supplementation with the fmo3 product tmao is reported to exacerbate glucose intolerance in high fat diet-fed mice gao et al.

of note the protein expression of fmo3 in human liver does not significantly differ between males and females in the cohort under study n15 males n35 females p0.79 figure s3.knockdown of fmo3 protects mice from high fat diet-induced obesity by stimulating the beiging of white adipose tissueto further examine the potential of the meta-organismal tmao pathway to impact obesity we utilized a second-generation antisense oligonucleotide aso to inhibit the expression of fmo3 in mice challenged with a high fat diet hfd figure 3. fmo3 aso treatment resulted in 90 knockdown of fmo3 mrna levels in mouse liver in both chow-fed and hfd-fed mice figure 3a.

the gene name and probeset id is provided for each of the brownbeige adipocyte marker genes.schugar et al.page 18figure 3. fmo3 knockdown protects mice from high fat diet-induced obesity by stimulating the beiging of white adipose tissueat 6-8 weeks of age female c57bl6 mice were treated with either a non-targeting control aso or or fmo3 aso in conjunction with either standard rodent chow or high fat diet hfd feeding for the indicated times.hepatic fmo3 mrna expression was quantified by qpcr after 10 weeksplasma levels of tma after 6 weeksplasma levels of tmao after 6 weeksbody weight changes over 12 weeksgonadal white adipose tissue wat weight at necropsypanels f-j mri images and subsequent quantification of adiposity in control and fmo3aso-treated mice maintained on diets for 14 weeks.mri images of control and fmo3 aso-treated miceperitoneal adipose tissue masssubcutaneous adipose tissue massschugar et al.page 19 fat mass lean massall data represent the mean - s.e.m.

collectively these data suggest that knockdown of fmo3 increases energy expenditure and enhances metabolic flexibility under conditions of cold stress.given that tmao levels were linked to adiposity across multiple strains of mice figure 2 we hypothesized that tmao itself may be directly involved in regulating adiposity.therefore we set out to determine the involvement of tmao in the adipose tissue phenotype seen with fmo3 knockdown.

correlation coefficient r and p value p are indicated for each obesity trait.correlation between plasma tmao and body weightcorrelation between plasma tmao and fat masscorrelation between plasma tmao and mesenteric fat weightschugar et al.page 17correlation between plasma tmao and subcutaneous fat weightcorrelations between human white adipose tissue flavin monooxygenase 3 fmo3 mrna expression and metabolic traits or brownbeige adipocyte marker gene expression n770.

2011. in multiple follow-up studies it has been shown that feeding atherosclerosis-prone mice diets enriched in either distinct nutrient precursors to tma synthesis or tmao itself enhances atherosclerotic cvd and thrombosis potential by altering host cholesterol metabolism and platelet hyper-reactivity koeth et al.

2016. in parallel aso-mediated inhibition of the tmao producing enzyme fmo3 protects mice from atherosclerosis shih et al.

2015. more recently inhibition of the microbial enzymes responsible for generating tma from choline thereby reducing tmao levels was shown to similarly inhibit atherosclerosis in mice wang et al.

in agreement with our studies in hfd-fed fmo3 aso-treated mice figures 3 and 4 western diet-fed ldlr--fmo3-- mice were protected against diet-induced obesity figure 5e-g and had increased expression of brownbeige adipocyte marker genes in the subcutaneous fat depots compared to ldlr-- fmo3 control mice figure 5h.

p0.05  p0.01  p0.001  p0.0001 vs. chow-fed mice treated with the same aso.schugar et al.page 20figure 4. fmo3 knockdown stimulates the beiging of white adipose tissuepanels a-e at 6-8 weeks of age female c57bl6 mice were treated with either a non- targeting control aso or fmo3 aso in conjunction with high fat diet feeding hfd for 8- 12 weeks.microscopic examination of hematoxylin and eosin stained gonadal white adipose tissue scale bar equals 200um.schugar et al.page 21gonadal white adipose tissue wat mrna expression of b1-adrenergic receptor adrb1 uncoupling protein 1 ucp1 and transmembrane protein 26 tmem26 quantified by qpcr.surface density of b1-adrenergic receptor b1-ar in gonadal white adipose tissue wat quantified by radio-ligand binding assay.cyclic amp camp levels in gonadal white adipose tissue wat.peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha ppargc1a mrna expression was quantified by qpcr in gonadal gwat inguinal iwat and brown bat adipose tissue.panels f-h mice were housed in metabolic cages for indirect calorimetry measurements.

p0.001 vs. fmo3 aso-treated mice fed hfd.schugar et al.page 22figure 5. genetic deletion of fmo3 protects mice from diet-induced obesitytop panel crispr-cas9 strategy for generating fmo3-- mice.

