activation of notch pathway could stimulate iscs dif- ferentiation into absorptive cell lineages while cis-inhibition of notch directs iscs toward secretory lineage cells such as goblet cells enteroendocrine cells paneth cells or tuft cells .

epithelial differentiation into goblet cells was increased upon inhibiting the notch signaling in the intestine and the notch signaling could also be modulated by tlr4  .within the intestinal crypt lgr5 stem cells constitutively express much higher levels of the cytosolic innate immune sensor nod2 than do paneth cells .

studies have shown that the lgr  crypt base columnar cells cbc cells are rapidly dividing iscs which is necessary for gut renewal .

the4 lrcs are activated during stress of injury and subsequently produce intestinal progenitor cells to replace the damaged intes- tinal cells .

long-term culture of the humantable 1  cell markers and functions of intestinal stem cells iscs.namefunctional descriptionactive vs.quiescentreferencesox91 transcription factor2 the involvement of the proliferation and differentiation of embryonic stemprogenitor cells and cscs through the wntbeta-catenin pathwayactive small intestine epithelium requires the presence of subepithelial myofibroblasts even when exposed to wnt3a-containing media .

the defects in iscs differentiation to paneth cells or goblet cells are always observed in ibd which results in luminal microbe invasion of the mucosa and inflammation .

s. typhimurium infects and damages the intestinal epithelial then promotes migration of neutrophils that produce ros which facilitate conversion of s o2- gener-the effect of the intestinal microbiota on paneth cellspaneth cells located at the base of the crypts in the small intestine are highly specialized secretory cells.

salmonella infectioncould stimulate the expansion of the paneth cells population withincreased expression of myd88 in paneth cells which is sufficient to limit salmonella penetration across the mucosal barrier  .

recent study also demonstrated that paneth cells are impor- tant for the differentiation and proliferation of iscs which are interspersed between paneth cells .

however the complete loss of paneth cells did not damage the intestinal crypt structure and main- tain the physiological proliferation of iscs in vivo which implied the underlying mucosal cells may act as a potential iscs niche .

j biomed mater res 1989 23121483-504. dovan der flier lg haegebarth a stange de van de wetering m clevers h. olfm4 is a robust marker for stem cells in human intestine and marks a subset of colorectal cancer cells.

paneth cells constitute the niche for lgr5 stem cells in intestinal crypts.

endothelial cells are essential for the self-renewal and repopulation of notch-dependent hematopoietic stem cells.

 qihang hou lulu ye and ucollege of veterinary medicine nanjing agricultural university nanjing chinaedited bykuldeep dhama indian veterinary research institute ivri indiareviewed bymaryam dadar razi vaccine and serum research institute iranruchi tiwari duvasu mathura up indiacorrespondenceqinghua yu these authors have contributed equally to this work and are co-first authors.specialty section this article was submitted to microbial immunology a section of the journal frontiers in immunologyreceived 28 march 2017accepted 08 may 2017published 23 may 2017citation hou q ye l huang l and yu q 2017 the research progress on intestinal stem cells and its relationship with intestinalmicrobiota.

intestinal stem cells iscs are the fundamental component of the mucosal barrier they undergo continuous proliferation to replace the epithelium which is also intimately involved in intestinal diseases.

