it is now widely accepted that this entire community with the addition of some specific bacteria interacts with liver diseases.13 it has also been shown that the intake of probiotics health-beneficial bacteria has a protective effect on liver diseases such as hepatocellular carcinoma14 and liver cirrhosis.15 although the probiotic c. butyricum can modulate the gut microbiota and suppress the growth of pathogenic microorganisms it islargely unknown whether the probiotic c. butyricum can attenuate acute liver damage and its effects on the gut microbiota.in this study we employed a classical ali mouse model induced by carbon tetrachloride ccl4 to monitor the result- ing pathological changes markers of both oxidative stress and inflammation and the intestinal microbiota to evaluate the effects of the probiotic c. butyricum and to analyze its under- lying mechanism of action.materials and methodsdrugs and chemicalsclostridium butyricum was kept in the china general microbiological culture collection center cgmcc 8808. trypticase-phytone-yeast extract tpy liquid culture medium was obtained from hope bio-technology co. ltd qingdao china.

1. thus this experiment revealed that the probiotic c. butyricum can protect the liver against ali.probiotic c. butyricum alleviated dysfunction and pathological damage of the liver in ccl4-induced ali miceto further confirm that ccl4-induced liver dysfunction can be reduced by c. butyricum serum enzymes that are indicative of liver function were analyzed.

this result indicates that c. butyricum can effectively prevent acute liver injury induced by ccl4 which damages the liver in a targeted manner.22to further confirm the protective effects of c. butyricum onhepatocytes we measured the serum levels of aminotransfer- ase and the pathological changes in the liver which are classi- cal parameters used to evaluate hepatic tissue damage.23 the data show that elevated ast and alt levels in the serum were drastically attenuated by c. butyricum pretreatment.

butyricum has a strong ability to adjust the gut micro- biota33 which can attenuate chronic liver injury.34 a previous study on acute ethanol-induced liver injury showed that the microbiota cannot be altered at 9 h post oral ethanol treat- ment.35 however our study shows a significant microbiome disruption appeared at 16 h post intraperitoneal injection of ccl4 which did not directly stimulate the intestine indicating that acute liver injury can alter the gut flora.

2017 8 4042received 4th march 2017 accepted 29th august 2017doi 10.1039c7fo00355bthe hepatoprotective effect of the probiotic clostridium butyricum against carbon tetrachloride-induced acute liver damage in micejiaming liua yaoyang fub hao zhangb jindan wangc jing zhub yaqi wangb yuegui guob guocan wangb tianqi xub maoping chud and fangyan wangbprevious studies have revealed that the probiotic clostridium butyricum c. butyricum can attenuate cirrhosis in chronic non-alcoholic liver disease.

we also offer novel insights into the mechanism by which pro- biotic c. butyricum pretreatment alleviates the ccl4-induced inflammation and oxidative stress of the liver via the modulation of nrf2 nf-kb p65 il-10 and the intestinal microbiota in mice.introductionthe liver with its amazing regeneration ability plays an important role in maintaining metabolic homeostasis.1aschool of environmental science and management wenzhou medical universitywenzhou zhejiang province chinabdepartment of pathophysiology school of basic medicine science wenzhou medical university china.

see doi 10.1039 c7fo00355bhowever acute liver injury ali a main type of liver disease has a high mortality rate of approximately 20-40.2 therefore it is imperative to find complementary and alterna- tive drugs for treating ali.3oxidative stress4 and inflammation5 are two major mecha- nisms underlying the pathogenesis of ali.

in accordance with the formulas supplied by the manufacturer enzyme activities were expressed as inter- national units per liter iu per l.histological examination of hepatic tissueafter appropriate fixation and paraffin embedding the liver tissue was sectioned at a thickness of 5 mm for staining with hematoxylin and eosin he and periodic acid-schiff pas respectively.for the inspection of ultrastructure changes the liver sample was quickly harvested for ultrathin sections localized at the edge of the hepatic lobule to observe the ultrastructure of hepatocytes via a transmission electron microscope h-7500 hitachi japan.examination of sod cat and mda in the liverthe total sod and cat activities and the content of mda in the collected hepatic tissue samples were measured using the xanthine oxidase method16 ammonium molybdate colori- metric method17 and thiobarbituric acid method18 respect- ively.

the data are expressed as the mean - sd n  10.  p  0.01.probiotic c. butyricum reduced oxidative stress in acute liver injury induced by ccl4 in miceoxidative stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of ali so we examined the sod and cat activities and the mda content in liver homogenates fig.

butyricum pretreatment significantly increased the content of nrf2 compared to the ali group.probiotic c. butyricum attenuated over-reactive inflammation in acute liver injury induced by ccl4to investigate whether inflammation could be attenuated by the probiotic c. butyricum we measured the levels of typical pro-inflammatory cytokines il-1b il-6 and tnf-a in the liver tissue by using elisa kits fig.

the ccl4 challenge drasti- cally increased the concentrations of il-1b il-6 and tnf-a in the liver while their concentrations were significantly decreased by c. butyricum pretreatment p  0.01. we alsodetected the total and phosphorylated levels of nf-kb p65 in the liver by western blotting and found that nf-kb p65 was elevated by the ccl4 challenge but it was significantly reduced by c. butyricum fig.

the pattern of the shift of the community structure in the c. butyricum pretreatment group coincides with what we observed in its attenuation of liver injury.probiotic c. butyricum increased the anti-inflammatory bacteria and metabolites in the intestineto address whether c. butyricum intake can reduce liver injury through modulating the gut microbiota we identified all ofthe significantly enriched orders in the c. butyricum-pretreated group.

however the effects of c. butyricum on acute liver injury ali remain unclear.

however the inflammatory responses of the liver induced by ccl4were significantly alleviated by c. butyricum pretreatment.

the probiotic clostridium butyricum c. butyricum has been used to treat diarrhea caused by antibiotics or non-antibiotics.8 moreover some animal studies have reported that c. butyricum treat- ment alleviates inflammation and oxidation in colitis9 andgastric ulcers.10 beyond its protective effects in the digestive tract c. butyricum was reported in recent studies to be ben- eficial against non-alcoholic high-fat diet-induced liver disease nafld.1112 however it remains unclear whetherc.

