in this context however i will focus on the potential of probiotic intervention to interfere with disease causing microorganisms.the role of the commensal microbiome in the upper airwaythe commensal microbiome and the immune systemi will briefly mention the role the commensal microbiome has in developing our immune system to a functioning defense system distinguishing self from non-self without causing undue tissue harm to the host.

findings suggests that a diverse microbiome in the gut is likely to be a key factor.the microbiome of the airway has been less investigated but it there have been suggestions that there is a healthy airway core microbiome erb-downward et al.

asthma rep. 17 1-8. doi ramakrishnan v. r. feazel l. m. gitomer s. a. ir d. robertson c. e. and frank d. n. 2013. the microbiome of the middle meatus ramakrishnan v. r. hauser l. j. and frank d. n. 2016. the sinonasal bacterial microbiome in health and disease.

unfortunately the complexity and dynamics of the microbiome in combination with the interaction between the microbiome and the host immune system makes for an incredibly complex situation with endless scenarios possible.

microbiome 2 1-11. doi aurora r. chatterjee d. hentzleman j. prasad g. sindwani r. and sanford t. 2013. contrasting the microbiomes from healthy volunteers and patients with chronic rhinosinusitis.

78 77-78. doi rosenberg h. f. masterson j. c. and furuta g. t. 2016. eosinophils probiotics and the microbiome.

also studied colonization and found no evidence of colonization of the honey bee microbiome 1 month after cessation of treatment which could potentially explain the lack of effect martensson et al.

like mixing the wrong fish in the fish tank.prevention or treatmentin adult crs we are of course focusing on treatment but one could speculate that for example postoperatively provide patients with probiotic nasal washes to prevent a shift toward a gram- negative microbiome or to down-regulate an excess growth ofs.

368 407-415. doi zajac a. e. adams a. s. and turner j. h. 2015. a systematic review and meta- analysis of probiotics for the treatment of allergic rhinitis.

2016.evidence in the literature for topical probiotic treatment of upper airway infectionunfortunately there is a paucity of data regarding topical probiotic treatment of crs with only one placebo controlled trial available.

however it is important that all probiotic candidates are screened for antibiotic resistance and virulence genes.duration of treatment in past trials varies from 10 days up to 300 days and it is difficult to draw any conclusions on what constitute an effective treatment period.

attenuation of eosinophilic inflammation is another possibility and will be discussed below.probiotics as single treatment modality or adjuvant to antibioticsto facilitate the effect of probiotic supplement a reduction of the load of bacterial pathogens by antibiotic treatment seems like the preferred route.

one could start the probiotic supplement simultaneously with antibiotics and then continue after cessation of antibiotic treatment to prevent with the probiotic any potential for pathogen regrowth.local treatment or systemic treatmentusing probiotics as living antibiotics in other words bacterial interference in form of a topical wash or spray has in my personal opinion the potential to be more effective rather than acting by proxy through the immune system.

an infection is today rather seen as an imbalance between the commensal microbiome and the bacterial pathogens resulting in a reduction in commensal bacterial diversity combined with an increase in the growth of microbes eliciting an inflammatory response.

2011 however most researchers still find it difficult to distinguish between healthy and diseased by analyzing the microbiome only psaltis and wormald 2017. the overall bacterial burden is similarin healthy subjects compared to crs patients.

