we emphasize that to understand the association between the oral microbiome and overallhealth it is important to define the oral microbiome and recognize the complexity of the oral cavity.the salivary microbiome and its relation- ship with periodontal diseaseswhen considering direct relationships between the microbiome and oral lesions e.g.

2 201-206 2017the oral microbiome and human healthyoshihisa yamashita1 and toru takeshita121section of preventive and public health dentistry division of oral health growth and development kyushu university faculty of dental science fukuoka japan2obt research center kyushu university faculty of dental science fukuoka japanreceived december 13 2016 accepted january 23 2017abstract in this brief review we discuss our previous research on the relationship between the bacterial composition of salivary microbiota andkeywords oral microbiome next generation sequencing 16s rrna oral health systemic health.periodontal disease.

his report described indi- vidual differences in the oral microbiome and although he did not refer to it directly he realized that individual differences in the microbiome influenced the health of the oral cavity.

however was it correct to pursue a specific bacterium as the cause of oral diseases affected by a complex oral microbiome was it wrong for miller to identify a cario- genic bacterium that would reflect the true cause of oral diseases his chemicoparasitic theory had features in common with more recent microbiome disease concepts.

the pathogenicity of mutans streptococci and specific pathogens remains controversial and the clas- sical infectious etiology of koch cannot explain fully the cause of oral diseases dental caries and periodontitis.more than 700 bacterial species inhabit the oral cavityand make up the oral microbiome 5-7 and we cannot ignore the existence of the oral microbiome when consid- ering bacterial virulence.

the bacterial composition of plaque on tooth surfaces differs between the supragingival and subgingival regions 10. in addition the extent of the difference in composition is positively correlated with periodontal pocket depth and periodontitis progression 11. furthermore the bacterial composition of saliva includes bacteria detached from various niches in the oral cavity and resembles that of the tongue coating 891213.alternatively we need to consider temporal changesin the microbiome 14 when we examine individual specificity in microbiome composition.

furthermore accumulation of virulent bacteria should be considered for a bacterium with a large relative abundance even if its individual virulence is quite low.the microbiome in saliva is shed from various nichesin the oral cavity and appears to be representative of the overall oral microbiome.

on the basis of periodontal pocket depth and gingival bleeding periodontal tissue condition was healthiest in cluster iii and least healthy in cluster i. pocket depth was similar in clusters i and ii but the number of bleeding sites was lower for cluster ii than for cluster i.these results have not been readily accepted by many dental researchers because the microbiome in saliva significantly differs from that of subgingival plaque and subgingival tissue is not directly exposed to the microbiome of saliva.

the most promising candidate in the oral environment was the salivary microbiome and we therefore compared the bacterial composition of the salivary microbiomes in the japanese and korean cohorts.in that analysis we selected orally healthy subjectsfrom two cohort studies because oral health conditions greatly affect the bacterial composition of the salivary microbiome.

however differences in thetable 1 predominant species-level operational taxonomic units otu in the salivary microbiome of 2343 adult inhabitants of hisayama town 20amean - sd boral taxon ids in the human oral microbiome database 7 are shown in parentheses.microbiome are not derived from an all-or-nothing relationship among specific bacteria.

thus a healthy microbiome is achieved by comprehensive overall regu- lation of bacterial species not by elimination of specific virulent bacteria.the mechanisms by which differences in the salivary microbiome affect periodontal health are not well under- stood.

there are no effective measures to control the microbiome in saliva however controlling tongue coating may be a promising periodontal therapy given the similarity of the salivary microbiome and tongue coating.

these findings suggest that the salivary microbiota reflects oral and systemic conditions.correspondence to dr. yoshihisa yamashita section of preventive and public health dentistry division of oral health growth and development kyushu university faculty of dental science 3-1-1 maidashi higashi-ku fukuoka 812-8582 japanfax 81-92-642-6354 e-mail doi.org10.2334josnusd.16-0856 dnjst.jstagejosnusd16-0856introductionthe oral microbiome was first recognized by the dutchman antony van leeuwenhoek using a microscope of his own construction.

this observation came at a time when bacteriology was not yet established and he was immensely fascinated by the kineticism of the microbiome.

unfortunately it would be 200 years before we developed a systematic theory that showed how the microbiome is related to disease in the oral cavity.the american dentist w.d.

