including the soil characteristics in the ordination revealed that lui is best represented by nitrate high lui and ammonium low lui.

at low lui a remarkable amount of otus could be found in the root interior and in the rhizosphere suggesting a specific recruitment of bacterial taxa by the plant.to gain deeper insights into the shared communities in all compartments otus present across 95 of the samples under low or high lui respectively an analysis of the core microbiome was performed.

mowing regime fertilization and grazing management of these plots ranged from unfertilized meadows and pastures to highly fertilized meadows and mown pastures resulting in a classification of four plots with high and four plots with low land use intensity which were treated as true replicates plot ids intensive lui aeg6 aeg19 aeg20 aeg21 plot ids extensive lui aeg7 aeg28 aeg33 aeg34see supplementary table s1.

besides proteobacteria bacteroidetes 20135 actinobacteria 9102 and acidobacteria 441 were also abundant in all compartments.the influence of land use intensity on plant-associated bacterial diversityanalysis of a-diversity revealed a significant impact of lui on bacterial diversity in bulk soil as well as in roots p  0.05 with higher a-diversity values in bulk soil and lower a-diversity in the root interior under high lui .

consistent with the ternary plot more shared otus were found under low lui 38 otus compared to high lui 17 otus.

otus shared under low or high lui are presented in supplementary tables s4-s6.significant differences with respect to lui in the abundance of assigned families in roots could only be detected for four taxa supplementary table s7a.

two families assigned to bryobacteraceae and cytophagaceae and unassigned members of rhizobiales were more present under low lui while one taxon was more prominent under high lui turicibacteraceae.

significance in roots is therefore attributed to low-abundance otus which are present at sites under low lui or high lui respectively.

in the soil the effect of land use intensity was more pronounced compared to root endophytes leading to a clearly distinct pattern of bacterial communities under different lui from rhizosphere and bulk soil vs. endophytes.

effects on the microbiome diversity in the rhizosphere in response to lui were not significant p  0.05. furthermore significant changes in b-diversity in response to land use intensity were revealed by permutational multivariate analysis of variance adonis using qualitative measures unweighted unifrac distance matrix for all three compartments.

at high lui a large number of otus was almost exclusively shared between rhizosphere and bulk soil and was not found in the root interior.

in contrast 19 families were found to significantly differ among luis in the rhizosphere supplementary table s7b and 48 in bulk soil respectively supplementary table s7c p-value  0.05. interestingly only two of the taxa that were significantly affected by lui in roots appeared to be also affected in the other compartments.

turicibacteraceae were influenced in bulk soil as well as unassigned members of rhizobiales in rhizosphere p  0.05. however lui did not have a significant impact on the most abundant families colonizing the root interior.to better understand the driving factors of the differences in bacterial community structure in the three compartments we performed a canonical analysis of principal coordinates.

apart from compartment lui and weon appeared to be the main driving forces for bacterial community composition in the endosphere and rhizosphere whereas in bulk soil all characteristics were strong determinants of community structure.

in this study there was no influence of lui on the microbial diversity in the rhizosphere.

