365 1693-1703.hensgens m. p. e. c. keessen m. m. squire t. v. riley m. g. koene e. de boer l. j. lipman and e. j. kuijper european society of clinical microbiology and infectious diseases study group for clostridium difficile esgcd.

usa 108suppl 1 4578- 4585.dominguez-bello m. g. e. k. costello m. contreras m. magris g. hidalgon.

cell 158 705-721.kimpimaki t. a. kupila a. m. hamalainen m. kukko p. kulmala k. savolasimell p. keskinen j. ilonen o. simell and m. knip.

that a continuous dialog exists between the resident gut microbiota and the immune system 56. beginning with the gestational environment and continuing with infancy and early child- hood the multiple microbial cues promote the development of the immune system readying it to cope with a more com- plex microbiota and potential pathogens 57. in the context of this intimate relationship a microbiome imbalance can lead to autoimmunity in a genetically susceptible host unable to pre- vent the development of autoreactive cells.conclusionsrecent findings underscore the role of the gut microbiota as a critical factor involved in the development of immune- mediated diseases.

identifying at-risk indi- viduals before disease onset is key for establishing longitudinal study cohorts which are essential for uncovering the environ- mental determinants to autoimmunity.longitudinal cohort studies of microbiome composition and t1d riskt1d incidence varies widely across the globe with scandi- navian countries displaying some of the highest incidences in the world 39. the .10-fold difference in diabetes incidence across europe is only partly explained by the differences in high-risk hla allele distributions 40. for example there are striking the differences in the rate of t1d in the genetically similar populations of estonia finland and russian karelia which has prompted comparative population studies to inves- tigate the environmental triggers of t1d discussed below.two dietary intervention studies were established in finlandto test the hypothesis that bovine insulin present in cow milk protein is a diabetogenic factor 41. in the trigr trial to reduce iddm in the genetically at risk study 42 expo- sure to foreign dietary proteins was postponed until 6-8 mo of age and the development of autoantibodies was monitored until the age of 6 y. results from the findia finnish di- etary intervention trial for the prevention of type 1 dia- betes pilot study indicate the use of a bovine insulin-free formula during the first 6 mo of life decreased the appearance of b-cell autoantibodies at the age of 3 y 43. a cross-sectional study based on these longitudinal cohorts compared the gut microbiomes of 18 children who tested positive for autoanti- body and 18 autoantibodies-negative controls 44. an in- creased abundance of bacteroides decreased bifidobacterium species and a lower abundance of lactate- and butyrate- producing bacteria characterized the microbiotas of children who seroconverted compared with nonconverters 44.certain high-risk hla haplotypes are shared between celiacdisease and t1d patients 45. the german babydiet cohort was initiated to investigate whether delayed exposure to dietary gluten could delay development of b-cell autoantibodies 46. although no protective effect was found a longitudinal analysis of the gut microbiota of 22 autoantibody-positive and 22 autoantibody-negative babydiet study children revealed altered bacterial interaction networks at the ages of 6 and 24 mo 47. in contrast to the finnish studies however no dif- ferences were observed in fecal microbiota diversity or com- position between cases and controls.

indeed a pilot study of 90 high-risk prediabetic infants from the teddy cohort revealed strong geographical influences on the microbiome composition 49. the early- life microbiomes of children from finland and colorado were significantly less diverse than subjects from sweden germany and washington state 49. bifidobacterium dominated the microbiota of infants up to 10 mo of age from sweden and washington whereas subjects from the states of georgia and florida and from germany displayed greater abundances of clostridium bifidobacterium and veillonella 49. these dif- ferences in diversity and composition remained significant after adjustment for early-life and lifestyle variables and suggestthat future microbiome-based therapeutic strategies should be tailored based on geographical location.a longitudinal gut microbiome analysis from 4 to 26 mo of age in 76 children from the type 1 diabetes prediction and prevention project from turku finland found an increased abundance of bacteroides dorei in the children who seroconver- ted to display autoantibodies compared with nonconverters 50. the abundance of b. dorei peaked at 7.6 mo of age in autoantibody-positive children and preceded the appearance of the first anti-islet autoantibodies 50. the same authors later examined the b. dorei genome methylation status in stool samples from one case and one control type 1 diabetes prediction and prevention subject containing high abundances of this bacterium 51. dna adenosine methylation of the 59- gatc-39 motif in bacterial genomes regulates gene expres- sion and has been associated with increased bacterial virulence 52. the b. dorei genome from the control subject included no dna methylation sites whereas in the seroconverted child more than 20000 methylated sites were found 51. these preliminary findings suggest that in addition to taxonomic composition microbial gene expression needs to be examined to begin to address microbiome function even when there is no evidence of differential abundance of taxonomic groups.the diabimmune cohort study was initiated in 2008 to examine the environmental causes underlying the 6-7-fold higher incidence of autoimmune and allergic diseases in finland compared with neighboring russian karelia 53. this project is designed to test the hygiene hypothesis in t1d in communities with different public health standards.

diabetologia 58 980-987.vatanen t. a. d. kostic e. d'hennezel h. siljander e. a. franzosa m. yassourkolde h. vlamakis t. d. arthur a. m. hamalainen et al.

13 179-200.ghosh s. s. m. palmer n. r. rodrigues h. j. cordell c. m. hearnej.

5 e177.cox l. m. s. yamanishi j. sohn a. v. alekseyenko j. m. leung i. chog.

1079 350-359.knip m. s. m. virtanen k. seppa j. ilonen e. savilahti o. vaaralaa.

166 608-614.de goffau m. c. k. luopajarvi m. knip j. ilonen t. ruohtula t. harkonenl.

achenbach m. hagen m. pflueger k. a. gano j. r. fagen j. c. drew et al.

m. kemppainen j. c. drew d. schatz m. a. atkinson b. kolaczkowski et al.

5 678.leonard m. t. a. g. davis-richardson a. n. ardissone k. m. kemppainenj.

diabetes 51 3353-3361.onkamo p. s. vaananen m. karvonen and j. tuomilehto.

