discussion the addition of data on the gut microbiome to the wls--and to other population based longitudinal studies of aging--is feasible under the right conditions and can generate innovative research on the relationship between social conditions and the gut microbiome.keywords biodemography--health disparities--survey methodsthere has been a rapid acceleration of high-quality lon- gitudinal population-based studies integrating biologi- cal data into their data collection  .

roughly three-quarters of wisconsin youth in this cohort graduated from high school sewell and hauser 1975. the graduate respondents were origi- nally empaneled with an in-person questionnaire at age 18 1957 which was followed with data collection in 1964 1975 1992 2004 and 2011. overall the sample reflects two-third of the broader cohort u.s. bureau of the census 2000. the age of the graduate respondents during data collection for the gut microbiome pilot was 76. response rates are high--in recent years 80.the content of wls surveys has continuously changed to reflect the participants' life course education focused the initial data collection familial and career outcomes received greater attention from respondents in young adult- hood and midlife and later rounds increased attention to health cognitive functioning psychological well-being nonwork activities caregiving bereavement social sup- port and end-of-life preparations.

no existing study has data on the human microbiota linked to longitu- dinal data on the broad array of social factors that may play a role in determining the make-up of the human microbiota.

research on the microbiome which is considered to be of parallel importance to human health as the human genome has been hin- dered by human studies with nonrandomly selected samples and with limited data on social conditions over the life course.

health affairs 31 2727-2737. doi10.1377hlthaff.2011.0973boardman j. d. roettger m. e. domingue b. w. mcqueen m. b. haberstick b. c.  harris k. m. 2012. gene-environment interactions related to body mass school policies and social context as environmental moderators.

proceedings of the national academy of sciences of the united states of america 204 13225-13231. doi10.1073 pnas.0611234104stilling r. m. bordenstein s. r. dinan t. g.  cryan j. f. 2014. friends with social benefits host-microbe interactions as a driver of brain evolution and development frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology 4 147. doi10.3389fcimb.2014.00147tedjo d. i. jonkers d. m. savelkoul p. h. masclee a. a. van best n. pierik m. j.  penders j.

importantly because this is the first effort to include these data in a longitudinal popula- tion-based study focused on social conditions health and aging we provide detailed guidance on the survey methods employed to collect fecal specimens.the gut microbiomewhat is the gut microbiome the human microbiome is now considered our second genome with potentially par- allel importance to the genome for shaping human health .

for example the national institutes of health directed and funded initiative to map the healthy human microbiota in 2012 was conducted on a single nonrandom sample of 256 individuals from st. louis and houston most of whom were researchers and stu- dents .existing human studies are also limited by a lack of envi- ronmental data of interest to social scientists.

in general biomarker data has rapidly expanded our understanding of how social factors get under the skin to influence health and mortal- ity .we detail the inclusion of a new biological marker-- the gut microbiome--recently added to the wisconsin longitudinal study wls.

the inclusion of data on the gut microbiome into the wls--and other population based longitudinal stud- ies--can help advance our understanding of how social conditions such as early life conditions educational attain- ment and social relationships influence health and mortal- ity across the life course.

what we already know regarding the influence of early life conditions socio- economic status and social support on health and mortal- ity--areas of profound importance for those who study the influence of social conditions on health--provides a start- ing place for exploring how social conditions influence the gut microbiome.a key opportunity for the integration of these data into population-based designs is to characterize differences in the gut microbiome across different populations.

brain behavior and immunity 25 397-407. doi10.1016j.bbi.2010.10.023baker m. stabile m.  deri c. 2004. what do self-reported objective measures of health measure journal of human resources 39 1067-1093. doi10.3368jhr.xxxix.4.1067barcellos s. goldman d.  smith j.

we are an amalgamation of cells both human and microbial and there is growing evidence that the trillions of microbes that inhabit the human body shape human health  .

mostly because of a reliance on animal mod- els however we know considerably less regarding how these external microbial communities from our social communi- ties to the physical environments in which we live shape the human gut microbiome .to what extent are these microbes contagious preliminary evidence in human models is limited--but promising.

though considered of the same scientific importance as the human genome unlike the human genome as opposed to the epigenome the microbiome is not fixed and is--in largetable 1. descriptive differences between the wls sample and the microbiome pilot mibi sampleawls participantbbut not in the mibi frame n  8622completed mibi n  331refusedmibi n  124full mibisample n  500note bmi  body mass index iq  iq is intelligent quotient henmon nelson test wls  wisconsin longitudinal study.athose in the pilot sample frame not residing in wisconsin during the winter were not included n  45 as they were out of geographic range for this pilot.

