no otus were shared by fish fed diet a or diet c. three different otus belonging to the genus staphylococcus were shared only by fish fed diet a or diet b and one otu of the genus burkholderia was shared by fish fed diet b or diet c.at the end of the second feeding period 93 dpff all fish were pooled for their first feeding diet because of the non-significant interaction of first and second feeding diets.

moreover 20 additional fish per treatment were weighed at the end of the first feeding period and 60 additional fish per treatment at the end of the second feeding period 20 fish per triplicate aquarium.

additionally the gut microbiome of fish fed diet a is very similar to the microbiome of fish fed diet b. in contrast the data points of fish fed diet c are significantly offset indicating a microbiome composition that is different from diet a and b as confirmed by a statistical model p0.01.illustrate the microbial communities at the end of the first feeding period in rela- tion to their corresponding communities at the end of the second feeding period.

in recent years the development of rapid and precise culture-independent techniques like next-generation sequencing ngs has led to the discov- ery that enzyme producing bacteria within the fish intestinal microbiome can positively influ- ence nutrient digestibility in several fish species by excreting digestive enzymes like amylase cellulase lipase or even phytase see detailed review by ray ghosh and ringo .

with significantly decreasing marine fish stocks and an increasing demand for fish as a protein source for human consumption plant-derived proteins as an alternative feed source for fishmeal have been of high commercial and scientific interest during the past decades  especially for carnivorous species such as salmonids.

golssen germany 10 makana produktion und vertrieb gmbh offenbach germany 11 arti-vital freyburg germany12 del lago bentonite castiglioni pes y cia buenos aires argentina13 evonik industries ag essen germany14 calculated--based on adc values available from current literature analysis was performed by skretting arc stavanger norway93 pff samples for microbiome analysis were taken and bodymass of experimental fish were determined.sample preparationin total 150 fish were sampled for intestinal microbiome analysis.

the index was significantly higher p0.05 for fish fed diet c than for fish fed diet a or diet b. all calculated indices increased significantly from day 54 to day 93 pff for individ- uals from treatments aa and bb.

abundances of actinobacteria were significantly increased p0.05 in fish of diet group a compared to fish of the diet groups b and c. the rel- ative abundances of the phyla bacteroidetes and fusobacteria however did not differ between diets at the end of the first feeding period.after the diet change no significant interaction between the first feeding diet and the sec- ond feeding diet was detected for the top five phyla.

one possibility could be stress even though the stocking density in each tank was according to approved recommendations for small trout fry  high variation in growth rates between individual fish could have caused aggression territorial or dominant behavior and thus lead to a higher stress level in smaller fish.

at the end of the second feeding period 93 dpff the number of observed otus significantly increased when fish were continuously fed with diet a or dietit can be speculated whether the stable number of otus present in samples of fish continu- ously fed with diet c is related to the significantly reduced growth or to the already highernumber of observed otus after the first feeding period.

thus the large difference between diets with and without animal protein in combination with a stable richness for all fish fed without animal protein reflects the strong influence of both the second feeding diet and intrinsic factors on the development of specific otus and on the overall diversity in the digestive tract of trout fry.conclusionsthe intestinal microbiome is substantially involved in metabolism and increasing plant pro- tein levels in fish feed are significantly affecting this microbiome.

the microbiome of juvenile fish consisted mainly of the phyla proteobacteria firmicutes bacteroidetes fuso- bacteria and actinobacteria and thus fits the salmonid core microbiome suggested in previ- ous studies.

the funders had no role in study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.introductionwith increasing knowledge about the impact of the gut microbiome on human health and nutritional status see review by the human microbiome project consortium  also an increase in studies about the fish microbiome can be observed which is especially promoted by the availability of new technologies .

several studies that were reviewed by austin  fur- thermore reported that microorganisms in the fish gut are able to produce inhibitory com- pounds that can control the colonization of pathogens in the gi-tract.

lactic acid bacteria in atlantic salmon salmo salar for example were shown to inhibit the intestinal colonization of the fish pathogen aeromonas salmonicida  and plant-based diets seem to promote a protec- tive effect against yersinia ruckeri in juvenile rainbow trout oncorhynchus mykiss  possi- bly due to increased numbers of lactobacillaceae.plant material as an alternative protein source is a crucial issue in modern aquaculture feed production.

