experimental designthe c57bl6 mice were randomly divided into four groups n  5 in each control c group including non-infected naive mice thatreceived oral inoculations of 2 carboxymethylcellulose cmc ex- perimental arthritis ar group including mice submitted to aia with methylated bovine serum albumin mbsa periodontal disease pd group consisting of mice infected with p. gingivalis oral inoculations of 108 colony-forming units cfu per day for 5 days starting 1 day prior to the final immunisation and the arpd group which were sub- mitted to aia followed by p. gingivalis inoculation starting 1 day be- fore the final immunisation.

journal of periodontology 83 1018-1027. grespan r. fukada s. y. lemos h. p. vieira s. m. napimoga m. h. teixeira m. m. ... cunha f. q.

non-challenged mice c and pd mice did not present any evidence of synovial inflammation bone erosion or proteoglycan loss which were all observed in ar mice figure 3a-d. importantly the com- bination of pd and ar induced more severe articular damage sug- gesting that p. gingivalis enhanced the severity of ar.

the journal of immunology 183 3700-3711.moutsopoulos n. m. kling h. m. angelov n. jin w. palmer r. j. nares s. ... wahl s. m. 2012. porphyromonas gingivalis promotes th17 in- ducing pathways in chronic periodontitis.

however the effect of oral p. gingivalis infection or other oral periodontal pathogens on gut microbiota remains unclear in addi- tion to the other possible mechanisms by which p. gingivalis prime the host response at distal sites affecting the arthritis outcome.additionally further studies are necessary to elucidate whether p. gingivalis presents an arthritogenic antigen in addition to inducing a th17 profile and whether t cell cross-reactivity to p. gingivalis- derived epitopes and joint-derived antigens also participate in the aggravation of arthritis.taken together our data demonstrate the pathogenic role of peri- odontal infection with p. gingivalis on the aggravation of arthritis medi- ated by increased th17 articular production of il-17 and activation of il-17ra which underlie the increase in neutrophil infiltration into the joints and ultimately affect arthritis progression.these data support the importance of early periodontitis manage- ment in ra patients as well as reinforcing the role of modulation of the th17il17 axis in the aia model as a mechanism for the influence ofp.

among the mice with aia neutrophil infiltration into the articular cavity was found to be higher in mice with concomitant periodontitis than in non-infected mice figure 5a.

indeed higher neutrophil infiltrate was detected in mice with ar and pd when compared to non-infected mice a condition that was not present in il-17ra-deficient mice.

the journal of clinical investigation 118 205-216. adibrad m. deyhimi p. ganjalikhani hakemi m. behfarnia p. shahabuei m.  rafiee l. 2012. signs of the presence of th17 cells in chronic periodontal disease.

clinical and experimental rheumatology 25 s4-s11.correa j. d. saraiva a. m. queiroz-junior c. m. madeira m. f. duartep.

m. teixeira m. m. ... da silva t. a.

arthritis and rheumatism 58 2030-2040.van hamburg j. p. asmawidjaja p. s. davelaar n. mus a. m. colin e. m. hazes j. m. ... lubberts e. 2011. th17 cells but not th1 cells from patients with early rheumatoid arthritis are potent inducers of ma- trix metalloproteinases and proinflammatory cytokines upon synovial fibroblast interaction including autocrine interleukin-17a production.

pain 148 247-256. queiroz-junior c. m. madeira m. f. coelho f. m. de oliveira c. r. candido l. c. garlet g. p. ... silva t. a.

arthritis research  therapy 18 249. trombone a. p. claudino m. colavite p. de assis g. f. avila-campos m. j. silva j. s. ... garlet g. p. 2010. periodontitis and arthritis interac- tion in mice involves a shared hyper-inflammatory genotype and func- tional immunological interferences.

anaerobe 39 91-96. darveau r. p. pham t. t. lemley k. reife r. a. bainbridge b. w. coats s. r. ... hajjar a. m. 2004. porphyromonas gingivalis lipo- polysaccharide contains multiple lipid a species that functionally in- teract with both toll-like receptors 2 and 4. infection and immunity 72 5041-5051.dudler j. renggli-zulliger n. busso n. lotz m.  so a.

while pd did not induce any change in the proportion of th17 cells in the inguinal lymph nodes of naive mice ar mice showed a higher frequency of th17 cells when they had been previously in- fected with p. gingivalis figure 4a supporting our observation of ag- gravation of ra by pd.

