while the foreskin is one continuous sheet of skin the portion of the foreskin that lies against the glans on the non-erect penis is referred to as the inner foreskin while that which is exposed to the air at all times is referred to as the outer foreskin.

by removing the foreskin surgically circumcision permanently eliminates the sub-preputial space and exposes the glans to air on both the erect and non-erect penis.correspondence 2 department of medicine university of toronto medical sciences building room 6356 1 king's college circle toronto on m5s 1a8 canadafull list of author information is available at the end of the articleearly speculation as to the protective biological mechanism of circumcision assumed that the relatively sheltered inner foreskin had a thinner layer of kera- tin stratum corneum than the outer foreskin and the penile shaft.

the folding of the foreskin on the non-erect penis creates a sub-preputial space between the inner foreskin and glans that is largely anaerobic and which is eliminated on the erect penis.

the inner foreskin display a pro-inflam- matory environment that is more conducive to hiv and that circumcision eliminates the sub-preputial space and reduces this local immune activation.if this hypothesis is true then what causes the pro- inflammatory immune milieu that is seen in foreskin tissues adjacent to the sub-preputial space emerging evidence suggests that both co-infections and the local polymicrobial community the penile microbiome play a key role.

were present in the foreskin prepuce of 87 of uncircumcised ugandan men where they consti- tuted over 20 of the total bacterial load and their abun- dance was increased by 4.6 x 105 16s rrna gene copies per swab in the foreskin of men whose female sexual partner had bv .

enhanced cellular responses and environmental sampling within inner foreskin explants implications for the foreskin's role in hiv transmission.

the foreskin con- stitutes a fold of skin that covers the coronal sulcus glans and urethral meatus of the non-erect penis and the distal aspect of the penile shaft on the erect penis.

however subse- quent studies quantifying the depth of stratum corneum have not found consistent differences between the inner and outer foreskin - and so this is unlikely to be the mechanism.an alternative hypothesis is that elimination of the sub- preputial space reduces hiv susceptibility by altering the local immune environment of the penile skin.

in men virus is able to enter foreskin tissue both through passive diffusion across the epithelium  and through active transport by migrating dendritic cells which can transfer infectious virions to dermal cd4 t-cells .

this would be expected to stochastically increase the likeli- hood of productive infection after hiv exposure and in keeping with this the number of mucosal ccr5cd4 t-cells is a key determinant of macaque susceptibility after rectal siv challenge  and larger foreskin size is associated with increased risk of hiv acquisition in adult men .

further evidence that th17 cells are central to genital hiv susceptibility comes from individuals who are highly exposed to hiv but remain seronegative hesn hesn men have a reduced relative abundance of th17 cells in their foreskin tissues  and hesn women demonstrate reduced genital expression of th17 cytokines .longitudinal studies clearly confirm the importance of genital immune activation in hiv susceptibility.

il-8 is produced by epithelial and other cells and is best known for its recruitment of neutrophils which provide an important defense against extracellular pathogens partially through the recruitment of th17 cells   and il-8 concentrations in the sub-preputial space correlated with the density of both neutrophils and th17 cells in foreskin tissue .

in addition several studies have compared immune cells between the inner and outer aspects of foreskin tis- sue under the assumption that the latter would resem- ble the penile shaft skin that remains after circumcision.

the inner foreskin harbors an increased density of cd4 t-cells   and releases increased levels of pro-inflam- matory cytokines  .

in situ explant studies show that dendritic cells from the inner foreskin demonstrate increased environmental sampling  and are better able to transfer infectious hiv to dermal t-cells  a characteristic of dendritic cells that have been matured through exposure to bacterial antigens   .

