it should be noted however that recruitment into these studies was not based on random sampling.bv prevalence has consistently been shown to be higher in sub-saharan african women and in women residing in the united states and europe who are of sub-saharan african descent compared to caucasian or asian women.

molecular vmb studies comparing women who delivered at term to women who delivered preterm however have shown inconsistent results e. women who deliv- ered preterm were more likely to have l. iners dominance e or increased vaginal bacterial diversity  but all studies were underpowered and did not take the presence of candida sp.

among women aged 14e49 years the bv prevalence defined as a nugent score of 7e10 was estimated to be 29.2 but only 15.7 of the women with a nugent score of 7e10 reported vaginal symptoms.

the bv prevalence was 23.2 among non-hispanic white women31.9 among mexican american women and 51.4 among non-hispanic black women.

women of sub-saharan african descent immigrants from suriname or ghana were more likely to have vaginal dysbiosis than ethnically dutch women after adjustment for sociodemo- graphic behavioral and clinical factors unpublished data.

recently showed that use of braided suture material for cervical cerclage which is the most common intervention in women at high risk of preterm birth in the uk was associated with a higher incidence of vaginal dysbiosis in the weeks after the intervention compared to women who received a monofilament cerclage.

a vaccine against s. agalactiae is being developed but would by design not eliminate cases associated with the other common etiologic agents.in our opinion maternal and neonatal infection studies would benefit greatly from the incorporation of molecular methods to identify microorganisms in women and their ne- onates in a more comprehensive manner.conclusionsthe global burden of vaginal dysbiosis and associated sequelae is high and women in resource-poor settings particularly in sub-saharan africa are worst affected.

the burden of bacterial vaginosis is highest in sub-saharan africa and in women of sub-saharan afri- can descent living elsewhere.

all rights reserved.keywords vaginal dysbiosis bacterial vaginosis hiv sexually transmitted infections pelvic inflammatory disease preterm birthintroductionwe have known for some time that most women have a vaginal microbiome vmb that consists predominantly of lactobacilli and that vaginal dysbiosis defined here as a vmb that is not dominated by lactobacilli occasionally causes symptomatic conditions .

women with vaginal symptoms such as unusual vaginal discharge unusual odor andor vaginal itching seeking clinical care will corresponding author.e-mail addresses j.h.h.m.

this means that not all women with a lactobacillus-dominated vmb are at low risk of developing adverse outcomes.

we hypothesize that women with high abundance of l. iners are more likely to harbor candida sp.

or relatively low-abundant pathobionts than women with high abundance of l. crispatus but well-powered molecular epidemiological studies are needed to prove this.

we recently conducted a population-based study among women aged 18e30 years representing the six largest ethnic groups dutch south-asian surinamese african surinamese ghanaian moroccan and turkish residing in amsterdam the netherlands and employed 16s rrna gene sequencing to identify vaginal dysbiosis .

the bv prevalence typically ranged from 30 to 40 in women at average risk of hiv and sexually transmitted infections stis and could be as high as 70 in female sex workers .

