the iecs are continuously communicating with the gut-associated lymphoid tissue galt and the intra- luminal bacteria .the epithelial cells that line the gi tract are comprised of four lineages or subtypes mature iecs responsible for absorption and digestion goblet cells which secrete mucus enteroendocrine cells which provide hormonal regulation of digestion and paneth cells which secrete antimicrobial peptides into the lumen of the gi tract see .

as the stem cells proliferate into the mature subtypes the iec's goblet cells and enteroendocrine cells migrate up the villi from crypt to apex while the paneth cells move down into the crypts.

as they mature into one of four cell types within the intestinal epithelium the intestinal epithelial cells goblet cells and enteroendocrine cells migrate up over the villi while paneth cells migrate down into the crypts.

the orderly proliferation maturation and migration of the epithelial cells the regulated apoptosis and the subsequent replacement by new cells is critical for the maintenance of barrier function and protection from injury .the iecs together with the dendritic cells are in constant communication with the commensal microbiota see .

binding to iecs leads to expression of tight junction proteins to goblet cells produces mucus to paneth cells releases defensins and to dendritic cells allows for t-cell differentiation.

prrs include a family of toll-like re- ceptors tlrs types 1e10 on the surface of the epithelial cells and nod-like receptors nlrs types 1 and 2 in the cytoplasm of these cells.

2. crosstalk signaling between intestinal epithelial cells dendritic cells and commensal bacteria .

signaling involving paneth cells fa- cilitates secretion of defensins and anti-microbial peptides while signaling with goblet cells results in production of mucus.

the dendritic cells cap- ture the bacterial antigen in the lumen of the gut or immediately beneath the m cells in the submucosa.

legend tgf-b 14 transforming growth factor-beta il 14 interleukin apc 14 antigen-presenting cells th 14 t helper cellstnf 14 tumor necrosis factor inf-g 14 interferon-g treg 14 t regulatory cells tlr 14 toll-like receptor tcr 14 t-cell receptor mlck 14 myosin light chain kinase.underlying immune tissue .

incredibly this single layer of intestinal epithelial cells iecs not only functions to absorb macro and micronutrients but also serves as a barrier against invading pathogens produces hor- mones and cytokines and secretes antimicrobial peptides into the lumen of the gi tract .

the cells ofthe crypts and villi are replaced in their entirety every 3e5 days by this process .

apoptosis is part of this orderly process and is a strategy by which there is disposal of injured and senescent cells in a non-inflammatory manner.

the turnover of epithelial cells by this pattern of programmed cell death is nearly constant.

this crosstalk signaling between the host cells and the commensal bacteria is critical for maintaining barrier function and modulating homeostatic immune responses.

