a-c The study of the mammalian microbiota is most developed but it is becoming clear that diverse animals a b andplants c possess epithelial surfaces where a complex microbiota can grow.

Vertebrate hosts feed their microbiota with diverse glycans that must be removed from the mucin glycoproteins in mucus  which is expected to favour bacteria such as Bacteroidaceae with enzymes that are able to digest complex carbohydrates.Mucins also have the potential to select particular symbionts in corals where a remarkable 20-45 of photosynthate is released as mucus which houses a diverse microbiota.

When host species interact with a diverse but beneficial microbiota as occurs in mammals evolutionary theory predicts that the microbial functions will centre on persistence in the microbiome ecosystem while the host will attempt to control the microbiota hence the 'leash' and .

However it remains possible that hosts control their microbiota and that the microbiota has evolved in response but that these evolutionary responses across diverse microbial species are too weak to drive reciprocal adaptation in the host.

9 e1003388 2013.Using ecological models fitted to data this landmark study estimates ecological interactions within the microbiota and concludes there is a lot of competition and exploitation.Lozupone C. A. Stombaugh J. I. Gordon J. I. Jansson J. K.  Knight R. Diversity stability and resilience of the human gut microbiota.

The importance of the human microbiome--defined here as the microbes the microbiota plus the host environment--is matched by its complexity.

It is now clear that tools from theo- retical ecology will have a central role in understanding and predicting the dynamics of the microbiota.

Our goal throughout is to understand biological function why did a particular feature of interest evolve For example why do the microbiota protect against pathogens or promote immune maturation  Such features can arise as a complex composite of both microbial and host evolution.

To break down this complexity we reduce the microbiome to three classes of effect each of which has its own evolutionary characteristics microbe- to-host host-to-microbe and finally microbe-to-microbe.Many studies have focused on how the microbiota affects human health microbe-to-host.

Specifically natural selection on the microbiota alone is not expected to make them beneficial to the host rather micro- biota evolution is dominated by the need for each species to compete andpersist within the host.

