2015.a healthy stratum corneum sc not only forms a barrier to prevent water loss and to maintain hydration of the scalp it also protects against the skin from external injuries.issn 1876-2883 print issn 1876-2891 online doi 10.3920bm2016.0144671severe or chronic scalp barrier damage can impair proper hydration and leads to atypical epidermal proliferation keratinocyte differentiation and sc maturation which may underlie some dandruff symptoms turner et al.

these results were paralleled by the volunteers' self-assessments.last this clinical study supports recent clinical research work demonstrating that st11 known for more than 2 decades for its beneficial effect on the intestinal immune system and in allergic patients throughout numerous studies also exerts its effects beyond the gut bunout et al.

overall perception of their scalp was rated on a scale from 0  very good to 3  poor.safety assessments included the reporting of adverse events throughout the study.analysis of the scalp microbiotaanalysis of the scalp microbiota included in addition to malassezia strains sampled on the scalp of the subjects a quantitative assessment of the total anaerobic and aerobic bacteria represented by gram positive cocci.

clinical efficacy free and adherent dandruff erythema scalp seborrhoea global clinical score subject self-assessments safety reporting as well as scalp microbiota assessments were performed every two weeks day 1 15 29 43 57 and 64follow-up.

2004b.both dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis dsd share an aetiology depending from three factors sebum microbial metabolism specifically malassezia yeasts and individual susceptibility dawson 2007. more recently research work demonstrated that dandruff is associated with imbalance in the proportion of the major bacterial and fungal populations colonising the scalp clavaud et al.

2005. scalp with dandruff 1 showed profound changes in the expression and maturation of structural and epidermal differentiation related proteins that are responsible for the integrity of the skin 2 showed altered relevant factors that regulate skin hydration and 3 showed an imbalanced physiological protease-protease inhibitor ratio cavusoglu et al.

2016. further evidence of a weakened scalp skin barrier in subjects with dandruff includes subclinical inflammation and higher susceptibility to topical irritants dieamant gde et al.

2011.undeniably it seems as if st11 confers a certain number of benefits at the skin level in contributing in the reinforcement of the skin barrier function and in the modulation of the skin immune system leading to the preservation of the skin homeostasis especially in dry and sensitive skin and the rebalancing of the microbiota of the scalp benyacoub et al.

2008. these findings were paralleled by results from several clinical studies isolauri 2001 isolauri et al.

hence it may be hypothesised that probiotics may allow for reducing inflammation throughout induction of treg cells which are decisive in limiting inflammation and which may induce mediators that influence the skin barrier homeostasis.st11 is safe as already shown in different clinical trials in infants children adults and the elderly bunout et al.

a global clinical score calculated in adding scores of free and adherent dandruff as well as of erythema summing up to a score of 48.assessment of the global clinical efficacy on day 57 endof study scored on a scale from 4  total healing to -1 deterioration.self-assessment of dandruff pruritus greasiness irritations redness stretching sensation and overall perception of the scalp.

its efficacy is potentially due to its positive impact on the skin barrier and skin immune system.keywords dandruff lactobacillus paracasei malassezia restricta probioticintroductiondandruff is a common persistent and relapsing inflammatory condition affecting skin rich in sebaceous glands hay and graham-brown 1997. its prevalence varies between 30 to 95 of humans xu et al.

2007. besides the discomfort it causes dandruff is also socially embarrassing and affects the patient's self-esteem manuel and ranganathan 2011. malassezia species have been suggested to play a major role in the pathogenesis of the condition together with stress fatigue weather extremes oily skin inadequate shampoo use immunosuppressed status aids and neurological disorders rudramurthy et al.

it is thought that an association exists between malassezia yeasts and seborrheic dermatitis which may partly be due to an abnormal or inflammatory immune response to these yeasts gupta et al.

2004a gupta et al.

