I would have liked to see the article incorporate more strategies that nurses nursing programs or employers can implement to en- sure that frontline nurses respond- ing to disasters have the resilience they need to provide care for oth- ers and to contribute to commu- nity resilience.Sharilyn M. Gasparrelli RN CNORDurham NCKEEPING ASSESSMENT SKILLS SHARPIn reading Identifying Hospital- ized Patients at Risk for Harm A Comparison of Nurse Perceptions vs. Electronic Risk Assessment Tool Scores April it is evident that nurse perception of patient risk is exceedingly greater than the perception of electronic assessment tools currently in use.

While the authors mention build- ing resilience as an acceptable way to support the community they don't address providing resilience training to nurses or how resil- ience is developed at an individ- ual level.Nurses are part of the commu- nities in which they work so it is imperative that resilience training starts with them such as in nursing programs or during facility orienta- tions.

The authors mention that patient assessment is the first step of the nursing process taught in nursing school but what if those skills fall by the wayside Even long-tenured nurses could benefit from workshops centered on patient assessment techniques as there is always room for growth and development in the fast-paced medical profession.Joshua Valenzuela Fresno CA TAJN T September 2017 T Vol.

The article is one of the clearest explanations of this com- plex topic that I've seen.

I think the article may stimulate more inter- est from others.I taught advanced pathology to advanced practice nursing students for many years and tried to help them see the links between science and the clinical setting.

This article does a wonderful job of translating science to clinical prac- tice especially with the labor and delivery examples.

I have seen in a number of nursing textbooks the axiom that the patient knows more about her or his body than anyone else.

Health care providers need to have more open discussions with their patients and come from a place of under- standing empowering patients to make better choices.

When pa- tients feel that their health care team genuinely cares about their well-being they are more receptive.

Providers' tone should shift from You should stop smoking for A B C reasons to educating pa- tients and letting them know that the staff is there to help them get the best quality care including ad- vice on smoking cessation.Daniel G. via ajnoffthecharts.comNATURAL DISASTERS AND RESILIENCE TRAININGEveryone is affected by natural disasters in some shape or form Climate Change and Mental Health April.

