 CCR TranslationsThe Microbiota A New Variable Impacting Cancer Treatment OutcomesJessica L. Fessler1 and Thomas F. Gajewski123Preclinical evidence has established that the host commensal microbiota can contribute to therapeutic response in cancer models a finding supported by early clinical data.

p. 3263In this issue of Clinical Cancer Research Galloway-Pena and colleagues discuss the implications of antibiotic use in cancer care 1.

The authors highlight the role that the microbiota plays in treatment efficacy and the overall health of the cancer patient see Fig.

More recently its importance in cancer beyond inflammation-driven tumors has become increasingly evident.

To continue to capitalize on the promise of immunotherapy it is imperative to understand how gut microbiota affects host immunity in the context of cancer.

Chemotherapy and radiation can lead to disruption of the intes- tinal barrier potentially allowing bacteria to translocate across the epithelium leading to a more pronounced effect of the micro- biota on the health of cancer patients.In preclinical studies multiple groups have found that the composition of the intestinal microbiota is a key component of antitumor immunity and therapeutic efficacy 3-6.

In mela- noma patients treated with ipilimumab a positive association was identified between resistance to immune-mediated colitis and bacteria belonging to the Bacteroidetes phylum 7.Given the evidence pointing to commensals as an important determinant of response to treatment it is paramount to critically evaluate the use of a common microbiota-modulating agent in cancer--antibiotics.

Historically anti- microbial treatment has been crucial for maintaining the overall health of cancer patients through treatment and prevention of infectious complications 8.

Oncologists caring for cancer patients are therefore challenged with finding a balance in antimicrobial administration preventing and treating infection without entering the vicious cycle of recurring infection increas- ing multidrug resistance and subsequent broad-spectrum anti- biotic treatment leading to intestinal dysbiosis.

Mucosal barrier injury from cytotoxic chemotherapy in conjunction with antibi- otic treatment can lead to the proliferation of opportunistic pathogenic bacteria that can translocate across the compromised epithelium and lead to infection 9.Antibiotic use has also been shown to increase the severity ofGVHD and mortality in mice and humans receiving allogenic3229Fessler and GajewskiFigure 1.The impact of the microbiota in cancer treatment outcomes.

