Marsano A. Conficconi C. Lemme M. Occhetta P. Gaudiello E. Votta E. Cerino G. Redaelli A. Rasponi M. Beating heart on a chip A novel microfluidic platform to generate functional 3D cardiac microtissues.

Electrochemical monitoring selective cell attachment patterns sensing systems for electrochemical transductions and enzymes and biomarkers in microfluidic devices can be achieved by the integration of some supporting technologies with these devices.Although better results can be achieved by mimicking the in vivo microenvironment using microfluidic systems as compared to other traditional systems for simulation from the cell to tissue level more complex environmental conditions are required.

OC is not reliable for certain areas such as adaptive immune responses responses to endocrine systems nervous systems skeletal systems and chronic diseases .

Gut on a chip  a Gut on a chip device showing an extra cellular matrix ECM coated flexible porous membrane with gut epithelial cells through the middle of the central microchannel and vacuum chambers on both sides b An image of the gut on a chip device.

1 Many early challenging applications of these systems include the analysis of cells and fluidic optics organic synthesis detectors high throughput screening microelectromechanical systems MEMS and extension into nanofluidics.2 Mimicking of human organs and their physiological responses is being made more affordable so that biomimetic microfluidic systems should be efficient enough to replace animal testing in the future.

The 3D bioprinted microfluidic systems with complex biological culture systems improve the proximal tubule functionality and epithelial morphology .

In 3D systems the integration of synthetic polymer gels into microfluidic channels gives greater complexity to the tissue microenvironment on a chip.

3011Academic Editor Hyun Jung KimReceived 24 March 2017 Accepted 2 May 2017 Published 4 May 2017Abstract A multichannel three-dimensional chip of a microfluidic cell culture which enables the simulation of organs is called an organ on a chip OC.

However some other technologies are still needed to control these parameters.Organ Simulation Is Better with MicrofluidicsThe following characteristics and advantages of microfluidic systems make them more reliable and competent for better physiological analysis and for controlling system parameters more precisely than other systems.

Selective cell attachment patterns detection systems for electrochemical transductions fluorescenceenzymes biomarkers genomics proteomics lipidomics electrochemical monitoring and viable tissue production cannot be achieved by microfluidic systems so the integration of other supporting technologies are needed for supporting and enhancing the simulation of OCs.Microfluidics Devices Accompanied with Supporting Technologies for Better SimulationOrgan simulation is more complex because of the enhanced environmental conditions and requirements.

