as such it is possible that the gut microbiome may play a role in scz through modulation of the gut- brain axis.the gut microbiome in schizophreniafew studies have investigated the gut microbiome in rela- tion to scz refer to table .

kanji1  t. m. fonseka123  v. s. marshe14  v. sriretnakumar56  m. k. hahn78 d. j. muller17received 6 march 2017  accepted 12 june 2017  published online 17 june 2017c springer-verlag gmbh germany 2017abstract with the emergence of knowledge implicating the human gut microbiome in the development and regula- tion of several physiological systems evidence has accu- mulated to suggest a role for the gut microbiome in psychi- atric conditions and drug response.

the following review d. j. muller 1 pharmacogenetics research clinic centre for addictionand mental health 250 college street r 132 toronto on canada2 toronto western hospital toronto on canada3 st. michael's hospital toronto on canada4 institute of medical science university of toronto toronto on canada5 psychiatric neurogenetics lab molecular brain science centre for addiction and mental health 250 college street toronto on m5t 1r8 canada6 laboratory medicine and pathobiology university of toronto toronto on canada7 department of psychiatry university of toronto toronto on canada8 complex mental illness centre for addiction and mental health 250 college street toronto on m5t 1r8 canadaexamines the evidence surrounding the gut microbiota in behavior and psychiatric illness the role of the microbi- ota in schizophrenia and the potential for antipsychotics to alter the gut microbiota and promote adverse metabolic events.keywords gut microbiome  gut brain axis  schizophrenia  antipsychotic-induced weight gainintroductionthe human gut microbiome is a collection of microbial organisms functioning in a symbiotic relationship within the host intestinal tract.

the following review describes the current link between the gut microbiome in psychiatric disease and examines the evidence for gut microbiome mediated antipsychotic-induced metabolic dysfunction.1 34eur arch psychiatry clin neurosci 2018 2683-15on enteric-endocrine cells.

for example sev- eral species of bacterium found within the gut microbi- ome are capable of synthesizing and releasing a number of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators which can actan overview of the gut microbiome in behavior and psychiatric diseaseseveral studies have investigated the gut microbiome in relation to temperament behavioral traits and neuropsychi- atric conditions refer to table .

patients taking rsp who had significant weight gain during treatment had a higher diversity gut microbiome and fewer bacteroidetes compared to firmicutes compared to psychiatric controlsthere were differences in the gut microbiome between rsp treated patients who gained weight compared to those who did notspecific taxa correlating with weight gain in the rsp group were identified and included ralstonia clostridium and members of erysipelotrichaceae familyeur arch psychiatry clin neurosci 2018 2683-1511appears to have a bidirectional relationship with microbial composition.

although other mechanisms are likely to also contribute to ap treatmentinduced metabolic disturbances the gut microbiome is a potential target warranting further study as a mechanism of ap-induced weight gain and related metabolic dysfunction.gut microbiota and metabolic regulation and obesity and diabeteswith the increasing emergence of information regard- ing the human gut microbiome it is becoming clear that this network of bacteria has an important role in human metabolism.

given the association between changes in gut microbiota weight gain and glu- cose metabolism it is possible that ap-induced metabolic disturbance could be mediated at least partially by chang- ing the composition of the human gut microbiome.gut microbiome and antipsychotic-induced weight gaina few studies have investigated the impact of ap on the gut microbiome and metabolic side effects in animal mod- els refer to table .

the gut microbiota has been described in several psychiatric disorders including depression and anxiety but only a few reports have discussed the role of the microbiome in schizophrenia.

beginning its development at birth along with several other physiological systems the human gut microbiome is an important factor in health and dis- ease.

several studies have implicated the microbiome in metabolism digestion immune system programing and more recently in influencing the central nervous system through the microbiome-gut-brain axis -.

as such the field of microbiome research has expanded into the area of psychiatry neuroscience and behavior.

several pre-clinical and clinical studies have investigated the composition of the gut microbiome in behavioral traits such as stress anx- iety and temperament psychiatric diseases such as depres- sion and schizophrenia scz and neurodevelopmental diseases such as autism -.

additionally it is hypoth- esized that the medications used to treat neuropsychiatric diseases may interact with the gut microbiome to influence treatment response and side effects.

these pathways may therefore allow the gut microbiome to communi- cate with the central nervous system directly or indirectly to influence behavior and psychiatric disease fig.

