1.4248 125OH2D treatment of T cells induced IL-4 production from Th2 cells.41 Mechanisms whereby UVR could regulate the T cell is via prostaglandin-E2 production and the formation of pyrimidine dimers and urocanic acid production.4950 These UVR induced factors have been shown to induce T reg cells and IL-10 production following UVR exposure of skin.4950 UVR was shown to induce functional T regs in VDR KO mice.51 Independent of vitamin D UVR induced T regs and suppressed antigen specific immune responses in vivo.51 The factors that mediate regulation of T cells following UVR exposure include both vitamin D inde-pendent and dependent effects of UVR Fig.

The data so far demonstrating an inverse correlation between vitamin D status and IBD severity are stronger for patients with Crohn's disease than for patients with ulcerative colitis.26A prospective study that utilized the Nurses Health study and determined the relationship between 25OHD status and the risk of developing IBD showed a significant inverse risk between 25OHD levels and Crohn's disease but an insigni- ficant inverse association for ulcerative colitis.27 In two different prospective studies in Crohn's disease patients with low 25OHD levels 30 ng ml-1 required more hospitaliz- ations and surgery compared to patients with higher 25OHD levels at entry.2829 One of the two prospective studies included ulcerative colitis patients and showed that low 25OHD levels 30 ng ml-1 resulted in more morbidity and treatment esca- lation over the 5 years of the study follow up for ulcerative colitis as well as Crohn's disease.29 Crohn's disease patients inclinical remission had higher 25OHD levels than those with mild or moderate disease and patients who used vitamin D supplements had lower C-reactive protein P  0.07 and CDAI scores P  0.05 than those who did not take supplements.30 The stronger associations of vitamin D onCrohn's disease versus ulcerative colitis could be because of the differences in the etiology of the diseases as evidenced by the unique as well as shared genetic risk factors for the two diseases.31 Vitamin D status is strongly inversely associated with IBD and especially Crohn's disease.There have only been a few clinical interventions done using vitamin D supplementation of Crohn's disease patients.

The incidence of ulcerative colitis was 40 higher and Crohn's disease was 80 higher in northern Europe compared to southern Europe.15 Other studies in France and Scotland showed similar results.16 In France a study described a clear north-south gradient for the incidence of Crohn's disease but not ulcerative colitis.17 This same group later found a correlation between lower UVR exposure and the increased Crohn's disease incidence observed in their earlier study.1718 In the US areas with lower UV exposure had increased incidence of IBD increased hospitalization rates and increased severity of disease.19-21 UV exposure was also associ-ated with the risk of gastrointestinal Clostridium difficileinfection.22 In addition patients with high UV exposure Arizona were 16 less likely to die from C. difficile infection in the hospital than patients with low UV exposure Michigan even when controlling for age gender and comorbidities.22 The above studies did not include vitamin D measurements but did suggest that changes in vitamin D status might account for the effects of UVR on IBD incidence and severity.Vitamin D and IBDThe vitamin D hypothesis suggests that vitamin D status is one of the environmental factors predisposing for the development of IBD.23 The effect of UVR on vitamin D status depends on skin color latitude skin exposure season etc.

The data suggest that there may be a vitamin D inde- pendent effect of UVR on experimental colitis.3738 Future workshould focus on the effects of UVR in other experimental models of IBD that involve T cells and the utilization of VDR KO mice to determine the UVR induced versus the vitamin D mediated effects of UVR treatments.Vitamin DUVR regulation of T cellsWhile it is clear that innate immune cells the microbiota the gut epithelium and T cells are critical regulators of gastro- intestinal homeostasis this commentary will focus on the effects of vitamin D versus UVR on T cells.

125OH2D inhibited IL-17 and induced IL-10 production from iNKTcells.46 There is one study that has looked at the effects of UVRon NKT cells and shown that UVR induces NKT cells that sup- press antigen specific responses.47 The UVR NKT cells were CD1d restricted and showed increased IL-4 production with UVR treatment but may be distinct from the iNKT cells that have been the focus of the vitamin D work.4647 Additional work is needed to determine whether the effects of UVR on NKT cells is via the production of 125OH2D and induction of iNKT cells Fig.

A recent systematic review and meta- analysis was done to determine the association of 25OHD levels UVR exposure geography and IBD.25 The conclusions of the study were that both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis patients had lower levels of vitamin D and lower levels of 25OHD were associated with higher Crohn's disease activity indexes CDAI there were too few studies to evaluate ulcerative colitis.25 However because of a lack of adequate data no corre- lations could be made between latitude geography and IBD.25The data linking vitamin D and the propensity to develop IBD have been done without accounting for the possible contributions of UV light to the vitamin D status.

J. Philpott M. T. Sorbara S. J. Robertson K. Croitoru and S. E. Girardin NOD proteins regulators of inflam- mation in health and disease Nat.

S. Kirschner S. B. Hanauer G. Nunez and J. H. Cho A frameshift mutation in NOD2 associated with susceptibility to Crohn's disease Nature 2001 411 603-606.M.

S. Ryan H. S. Kim M. Exley S. SnapperS.

There is limited data demonstrating an effect of UVR on experimental IBD but the mechanisms of UVR suppression in IBD have not been defined.

