despite such inconsistent results of previous clinical studies ifn-g is still tested as a treatment for her-2 positive breast cancer ovarian cancer fallopian tube cancer primary peritoneal cancer and soft tissue sarcoma clinicaltrials.gov nct03112590 nct02948426 and nct03056599.

moreover diverse biological actions of ifn-g are also implicated in pregnancy obesity allergies autoimmune diseases as well as in cancer -.in cancer biology results from early studies established ifn-g as a prototypical antitumor cytokine.

many cytokines produced in chronic inflammation such as tnf-a andil1-b are already reported to fuel cancer growth and progression toward more malignant phenotypes through multiple mechanisms including an induction of dna damage response angiogenesis and activation of signaling pathways that promote cancer cell survival andor proliferation .

loss of the ifn-g receptor was found to predict poor prognosis in ovarian cancer and was also seen as an underlying reason for the limited success in the therapeutic use of ifn-g in ovarian cancer trials .

smyth m.j. cancer immunoediting integrating immunity's roles in cancer suppression and promotion.

matsushita k. takenouchi t. shimada h. tomonaga t. hayashi h. shioya a. komatsu a. matsubara h. ochiai t. strong hla-dr antigen expression on cancer cells relates to better prognosis of colorectal cancer patients possible involvement of c-myc suppression by interferon-g in situ.

reviewthe dark side of ifn-g its role in promoting cancer immunoevasionmarija mojic 1 kazuyoshi takeda 23 and yoshihiro hayakawa 1 division of pathogenic biochemistry institute of natural medicine university of toyama sugitani 2630 toyama 930-0194 japan division of cell biology biomedical research center graduate school of medicine juntendo universitybunkyo-ku tokyo 113-8421 japan department of biofunctional microbiota graduate school of medicine juntendo university bunkyo-ku tokyo 113-8421 japancorrespondence hayainm.u-toyama.ac.jp tel.

however findings that endogenous ifn-g not only controls tumor initiation and progression but also shapes tumor immunogenicity and promotes the outgrowth of tumor cells with immunoevasive properties - revealed that this cytokine can have a dual role in shaping cancer's outcome.

co-operating with canonical the jak-stat signaling pathway or acting parallel with it other pathways that include map kinase pi3k jnk camkii and nf-kb regulate many aspects of ifn-g biological actions -.ifn-g-mediated anti-tumor responsesearly studies of ifn-g effects on various cancer types revealed its extensive anti-tumor potential.

those series of studies in mice models that were either ifn-g deficient or hadendogenous ifn-g blocked with monoclonal antibody clearly indicate the anti-tumor role of ifn-g. collectively ifn-g was shown to exert its potent anti-tumor effect through modulating immune cells tumor cells andor non-immune stromal cells in tumor microenvironment.ifn-g in clinical settingsbecause of its potent anti-tumor activity ifn-g has been regarded as a promising cancer immunotherapy agent.

however another clinical study in which ifn-g was used as an adjuvant therapy after surgical resection of colon cancer showed no therapeutic benefit .

in ovarian cancer clinical trials of ifn-g shared a similar fate to melanoma.

in contrast it is also reported that ovarian cancer patients treated with ifn-g suffered from severe adverse effects and showed shorter overall survival rates .

contrary to such inconsistent outcome of the clinical use of ifn-g it certainly plays an important role in the success of a new generation of immunotherapy which has proved to be superior to other means of cancer management.

similar to immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment of cancer ifn-g is also a determinant of efficacy of adoptively transferred t cell therapies .initial discovery of tumor promoting features of ifn-gabout the same time when ifn-g was galloping toward fame as a multitasking anti-tumor agent first reports of its tumor promoting actions started to appear.

