an increased abundance of h2s producers in cd patients was associated with defects in h2s detoxification suggesting an important mechanistic role of host-microbe interactions in cd inflammation .in a recent metagenomic analysis of ten pediatric cd patients and five controls dunn et al.

this review includes current literature on changes in composition and function of the gut microbiome associated with een treatment in cd patients.keywords exclusive enteral nutrition crohn's disease microbiomeintroductioncrohn's disease cd is a chronic relapsing and remitting inflammatory bowel disease ibd that causes tissue-damaging inflammation within the gastrointestinal gi tract.

een is a highly efficacious treatment to induce remission in cd patients and has a profound impact on the microbiome suggesting that een positively interferes with dysbiosis in cd patients.

in the largest treatment-naive cd cohort study to date 447 pediatric cd patients 221 controls gevers et al.

while these preliminary results suggest that een may 'normalize' disease-associated dysbiosis to cause remission it should be noted that this study examined the mucosal microbiome whereas all other studies on the microbiome in een to date have used stool samples.in a study of five newly-diagnosed children with cd undergoing een and five controls kaakoush et al.

notably this study demonstrated that different species within the same genus can be over- or under-represented in cd patients highlighting the need for in-depth microbiome analysis.lewis et al.

reported that een treatment increased relative abundance of bacteria within the firmicutes phylum especially members of the christensenellaceae family and decreased relative abundance in members of the bacteroidetes phylum including bacteroidaceae porphyromonadaceae and rikenellaceae in eight patients undergoing een .in a larger study of 23 pediatric cd patients undergoing een quince et al.

symptom-free disease in both children and adults with cd -.perhaps the strongest evidence for the role of diet in cd is the therapeutic effect of exclusive enteral nutrition een in treating active cd.

1-902-470-8225to be considered joint first authors.received 21 march 2017 accepted 26 april 2017 published 1 may 2017abstract crohn's disease cd a form of inflammatory bowel disease ibd is thought to arise from a complex interaction of genetics the gut microbiome and environmental factors such as diet.

patients with cd express strong interest in controlling their disease with diet but medical nutrition therapy mnt is currently not included in standard care for cd due to a lack of research in this area .

band count was not significantly different between controls and cd patients prior to treatment but cd patients were found to have lower diversity at the end of treatment relative to controls.

klebsiella and prevotellacd crohn's disease dgge denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis hc healthy control ngs next generation sequencing pcr polymerase chain reaction tgge temperature gradient get electrophoresis t-rflp terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism.metabolic functionsmicrobial metabolic functions are consistently perturbed in cd patients perhaps even more so than microbiome composition .

een further decreased microbiome diversity and caused significant changes in microbiome structure particularly in those genera that were already reduced in cd patients such as faecalibacterium bifidobacterium and ruminococcus only lactococcus increased during een.

while cd-associated dysbiosis has been observed using both stool and mucosal biopsy samples throughout the available literature it is important to note that the fecal microbiome profile is not necessarily reflective of the mucosa-associated microbiome .molecular approaches to microbiome investigationculture-independent dna-based methods have been widely used to describe andor phylogenetically identify components of the gut microbiome since the majority of total gut-resident bacteria are not readily culturable .

total number of t-rfs was detected .in a larger and more recent study involving 15 pediatric cd patients and 21 health controls gerasimidis et al.

