In order to visualize the bacterial communities in the seeds the surface-sterilized seeds of both untreated seeds and seeds bio-primed with either P. brassicaceae CKB26 or S. ply- muthica HRO-C48 Table were used.

There were no signifi- cant effects of any of the seed treatments on the total yield data not shown.Colonization patterns of the bacterial communities in oilseed rape seeds and seedlingsThe colonization of the untreated surface-sterilized seeds as well as seeds bio-primed by P. brassicacearum CKB26 was visualized using CLSM.

We hypothesize that the seed microbiota is a crucial factor for plant health in two ways i diverse bacterial net- works within seeds avoid pathogen transmission andii tight bacterial networks lead to colonization resist- ance as suggested by Agler et al.

.Relative abundance richness and diversity analysis of bacterial communitiesThe highest abundance of bacterial cells was found on the seeds of the Traviata cultivar 1.9 x 109 - 8.8 x 108 bacter- ial cells per seed followed by Sherpa 1.5 x 109 -8.0 x 108.

longisporumSb3-11.3 - 0.92.0 - 1.22.6 - 1.4Control1.8 - 1.32.2 - 1.51.7 - 1.2Sb3-10.9 - 0.61.8 - 0.81.4 - 1.3Control1.8 - 1.21.9 - 1.51.4 - 1.3that seed microbiota is a crucial factor for plant health.We identified high bacterial diversity as well as diverse bacterial networks within the seeds of all culti- vars.

Variations in seed production practices storage condi- tions and other abiotic factors may in part be respon- sible for variations in seed microbiota between seed charges as suggested by Barett and co-workers However plant species-specific and even cultivar- specific components in the microbiome structure have already been reported in many studies 2 This confirms our hypothesis that the seed microbiome of oilseed rape is cultivar-specific.

It was however 30 lower than the amount found in the microbiome ofgerminated Brassica seeds by Barett and co-workers The endophytic bacterial cells in the untreated seeds appeared either separately or in small groups as observed by FISH-CLSM.

.Cultivar-dependent response to the bacterial seed treatment in soilThe seeds of the Avatar Sherpa and Traviata winter oilseed rape cultivars were treated with P. polymyxa Sb3-1 and grown in three different soils under greenhouse con- ditions for 7 weeks.

The FISH staining and visualization of the samples was carried out as described above.ResultsStructure of the bacterial Brassica seeds microbiotaWe combined three experimental approaches in our study of the cultivar-dependent oilseed rape seed microbiome structure.

The structure of the bacterial communities within the seeds of the three oilseed rape cultivars including allCore and specific microbiome of Brassica seedsFrom the 8362 of the total bacterial observed OTUs in all three cultivars 2748 33.7 of the total OTU were shared between them Fig.

