to elucidate the role of oral bacteria in acute pediatric appendicitis we studied the oral and appendiceal microbiome of affected children compared to healthy controls.methods between january and june 2015 21 children undergoing appendectomy for acute appendicitis and 28 healthy controls were prospectively enrolled in the study.

in contrast gingival sulcus of children with acute appendicitis had significantly higher species richness than their corre- sponding appendix samples p  0.001. moreover the in- verse simpson index was significantly lower in the appendixcompared to gingival sulcus of infected children p  0.04. likewise no statistical differences were found in terms b- diversity between both sulcus samples.

thus appendectomy remains the only definitive treatment of acute appendicitis.to the best of our knowledge this is the first study investi- gating the relationship between the oral and the appendiceal microbiome in children with acute appendicitis and healthy controls.

international journal of colorectal disease 2018 33209-218 httpsdoi.org10.1007s00384-017-2948-8the oral microbiome--the relevant reservoir for acute pediatric appendicitiscarlotta blod1  nadine schlichting 12  sara schulin 1  anne suttkus 1  nicole peukert1  catalina suzana stingu3 christian hirsch 4  wieland elger4  martin lacher1  ulf buhligen1  steffi mayer1accepted 14 december 2017  published online 22 december 2017 springer-verlag gmbh germany part of springer nature 2017abstractpurpose the oral microbiome has been related to numerous extra oral diseases.

bacterial abundance at phylum level of inflamed appendices app differed to the gingival sulcus of children with acute appendicitis sulcapp but not to the gingival sulcus of healthy controls sulccon.

2 16s microbiome profiling at genus and species level.microbiome analysis of inflamed appendices app and gingival sulcus in children with acute appendicitis sulcapp compared to gingival sulcus of controls sulccon at genus a and speciesb level.

the mrna expression of bacteria normalized to 23s rrna inphlegmonous appendices app and gingival sulcus in children with acute appendicitis sulcapp compared to gingival sulcus of healthy controls sulccon.

the lack of detection in our study can be well explained as samples were taken from the gingival sulcus of children without acute oral infections overall psi  1.7 - 0.9.p.

however pielou's evenness index was significantly lower in the appendix com- pared to the sulcus p  0.04.rt-qpcrin a second cohort of healthy children n  1028 and children with acute appendicitis n  821 four species f. nucleatume.

thus the oral cavity could be a relevant reservoir for acute appendicitis.keywords oral bacteria .

moreover in the large number of detected bacteria oral microbes such asfusobacterium porphyromonas peptostreptococcus and gemella were significantly increased in acute appendicitis    -.recent data suggest that the oral cavity serves as a reservoir for pathogens causing systemic inflammatory processes   .

total bacterial dna from gingival sul- cus of both groups sulcapp  appendicitis sulcus sulccon  control sulcus and the appendix app  appendix in acute appendicitis was extracted according to the following proto- col  after unfreezing swabspaper points they were treat- ed with 360 ml lysozyme solution for 30 min at 37 degc 20 mg ml lysozyme 20 mm trishcl 2 mm edta 1.2 triton x100 ph 8.00. subsequently samples were incubated with 40 ml proteinase k for 30 min at 56 degc in 400 ml buffer al lysis buffer for protein digestion.

finally two culture-independent ap- proaches revealed not only the presence of bacterial dna sequencing but also their viability levels rt-qpcr addi- tionally we were able to verify a proof of principle that the gi passage can be a potential route of infection.conclusionwe identified several oral pathogens such as p. stomatiscorrodens and f. nucleatum by 16s rdna sequencing in acute pediatric appendicitis in both gingival sulcus and appen- dices.

a viable migra- tion of oral pathogens from the oral cavity through the stom- ach postprandially is a possible route of infection.acknowledgements we are grateful to marco ginzel for his excellent theoretical and technical assistance.compliance with ethical standardsethical approval all procedures performed in studies involving human participants were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institu- tional andor national research committee and with the 1964 helsinki declaration and its later amendments or comparable ethical standards.informed consent informed consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the study.referenceswalker ar segal i 1990 what causes appendicitis j clin gastroenterol 122127-129. swidsinski a dorffel y loening-baucke v theissig f ruckert jc ismail m rau wa gaschler d weizenegger m kuhn s schilling j dorffel wv 2011 acute appendicitis is characterised by local invasion with fusobacterium nucleatumnecrophorum.

postprandial viability could be demonstrated for all tested bacteria.conclusion in children with acute appendicitis we identified several oral bacterial pathogens.

