in a study that addressed the role of certain changes in the composition of the microbiota as a risk factor of esbl-pe coloni- zation gosalbes and colleagues highlighted a similar richness of taxa but a significant difference in species of four genera between carriers and non-carriers.these two recent reports suggest the role of microbiome as a risk factor associated with a higher risk of mdro acquisi- tion.

neonates particularly are exposed to the risk of esbl-pe acquisition and owing to the immaturity of their immune system to a higher secondary risk of esbl-pe-related infection.

also trans- mission of esbl-pe and other mdro isolates may occur in the nicu via either medical staff or equipment however other sources of mdro bacterial acquisition in infants could be the mother and specific practices such as skin-to-skin care that despite positive effects in the care of premature babies could expose infants to a higher risk of acquisition.how to control the risk of transmissionuntil now most of the data have not allowed us to identify the modes of acquisition and to consider the best control policies.

however these different studies did not take into account several other risk factors.indeed one of the most important risk factors neglected in several studies is related to colonization pressure.

reducing the risk of acquisition in the hospital is usually based on a bundle of measures including screening policies at admission improving hand hygiene compliance and decreasing antibiotic consumption.

as options for treatment are limited and due to the high risk of mortality related to inadequate antibiotic therapy the clinical impact of esbl-pe spreading is important.

neonates specifically those hospitalized in neonatal intensive care units nicus are at high risk of esbl-pe acquisition and are highly susceptible to esbl-pe infection due to the immaturity of their immune systems.

according to the literature two main factors seem to be associated with the risk of acquisitiontransmission antibiotic consumption and compliance to hand hygiene.bacterial acquisition and route of transmissionunlike adults the newborn is exposed at birth and during the first weeks of life to multiple possible sources of mdro acqui- sition.

in nicus mdro acquisition will occur from health-care workers as reservoirs or vectors but also from parents and visitors.determining the route of mdro acquisition in and outside the hospital seems to be very important to understand the best way to limit and control the risk of outbreaks.

during nicu stay infants are exposed to specific and non-specific factors that increase the risk of mdro acquisition including invasive procedures and the frequent use of broad-spectrum antimicrobial drugs.

indeed the most frequent published reports regarding the risk factors of infection or colonization by esbl-pe bacteria were from nicus and little is known about factors associated with spreading in the community.

most reports often describe single-unit outbreaks and health care-related risk factors.

several risk factors have been identified such as younger gestational age low birth weight length of hospital stay invasive devices antibiotic use and hand hygiene compliance.

analyzing risk factors of esbl-pe acquisition in neonates without taking into account mother or family carriage or both may be the cause of major bias.

in a multivariate analysis in a first study conducted at the charite - universitatsmedizin berlin hospital denkel and colleagues identified esbl-pe-positive mothers as the main risk factor of esbl-pe acquisition in new- borns suggesting maternal-neonatal as the main source of acquisition.

