these data suggest that the gut microbiota enhances systemic vac- cine responses but suppress oral vaccine responses however fur- ther work is needed to determine whether these effects occur in all circumstances.the microbiota as a vaccine adjuvant the most convincing evidence in mice to date that the micro- biota can influence vaccine responses is a study of mice immunized with the seasonal influenza vaccine that showed that germ-free or antibiotic-treated mice had significantly impaired igg and igm anti- body responses to this vaccine.35 the seasonal influenza vaccine is rel- atively unusual in that it is an nonadjuvanted vaccine adjuvants are pharmacological or immunologic agents that act to accelerate prolong or enhance ag-specific immune responses.

d these positive effects of the microbiota on vaccine responses are abrogated in antibiotic treated or germ-free mice.including the bcg vaccine and those against poliomyelitis and rotavirus.1011 although many factors such as genetics12 prior ag exposure and maternal vaccination13 can influence vaccine immuno- genicity several lines of evidence now suggest that the microbiota is also a significant factor.1415 in this review we summarize the evidence that the gut microbiota can influence vaccine responses and discuss potential mechanisms through which this can occur fig.

vaccine efficacy of the diphtheria tetanus and acellular pertussis dtpa vaccine for exam- ple has been reported as 71-78 for preventing milder symptomsabbreviations bcg bacille de calmette et guerin ct cholera toxin dc dendritic cell df dietary fiber dtpa diphtheria tetanus and acellular pertussis hbsag hepatitis b virus surface antigen has human serum albumin ibd inflammatory bowel disease mdp muramyl dipeptide mln mesenteric lymph node nod2 nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain containing 2 pcv13 pneumococcal conjugate vaccine 13 prrs pattern recognition receptors ripk2 receptor interacting serinethreonine kinase 2 scfa short-chain fatty acidof pertussis and 84 for preventing typical disease8 whereas esti- mates of bcg efficacy against pulmonary tuberculosis in children are highly variable 0-80.9 in addition clinical trials consistently show lower immunogenicity for vaccines in developing world populationsb celllnfluenza- specific lgg andigm responsesmacrophagetlr5flagellininfluenza vaccineintranasal immunizationhsa  cholera toxindietary fibreantibioticsgf micegut microbiotascfashsa-specific lggb cellnod2cd11c dcmdpb cellmetabolism gene expressionantibody responsesfigure 1 mechanisms through which the gut microbiota has been shown to influence antibody responses to vaccinationinfection in mice.a tlr5-mediating sensing of flagellin from the gut microbiota by ms is necessary for optimal antibody responses in mice to the seasonal influenza vaccine.

numerous elegant studies in humans have established a correlative link between the composition of the gut microbiota and various disease conditions such as diabetes 68 and autoimmunity.43 in addition the composition of the microbiota has also been linked to an individual's capacity for inflammatory cytokine production30 and many of the species in the human microbiota have been shown to be immunomodulatory in colonized mouse models.69 currently however studies that demonstrate a causal link between the gut microbiota and vaccine immune responses in humans are lack- ing.

gut microbes 3 203-220.zhernakova a. kurilshikov a. bonder m. j. tigchelaar e. f. schirmer m. vatanen t. mujagic z. vila a. v. falony g. vieira-silva s. wang j. imhann f. brandsma e. jankipersadsing s. a. joossens m. cenit m. c. deelen p. swertz m. a. lifelines cohort study group weersma r. k. feskens e. j. netea m. g. gevers d. jonkers d. franke l. aulchenko y. s. huttenhower c. raes j. hofker m. h. xavier r. j. wijmenga c. fu j.

274 10689-10692.vatanen t. kostic a. d. d'hennezel e. siljander h. franzosa e. a. yassour m. kolde r. vlamakis h. arthur t. d. hamalainen a. m. peet a. tillmann v. uibo r. mokurov s. dorshakova n. ilonen j. virtanen s. m. szabo s. j. porter j. a. lahdesmaki h. huttenhower c. gevers d. cullen t. w. knip m. diabimmune study group xavier r. j.

lps is recognized by the prr tlr4.42 different species in the microbiota produce different types of lps and varia- tion in the immunogenicity of these different types of lps has been shown to contribute to autoimmunity in humans 43 and to differencesin the class of helper t cell responses.44 it is not currently known whether lps produced by the microbiota can influence vaccine anti- body responses but it seems possible given that immunization of mice with synthetic nanoparticles containing ags and ligands that signal through tlr4 lead to significantly enhanced and more persistent ag- specific antibody responses.38 the immunomodulatory activity of lps produced by the microbiota may be particularly relevant if vaccines are administered after antibiotics.

123 983-993.vijay-kumar m. aitken j. d. carvalho f. a. cullender t. c. mwangi s. srinivasan s. sitaraman s. v. knight r. ley r. e. gewirtz a. t. 2010 metabolic syndrome and altered gut microbiota in mice lacking toll-like receptor 5. science 328 228-231.turnbaugh p. j. ley r. e. mahowald m. a. magrini v. mardis e. r. gordon j. i.

nature 535 75-84.schirmer m. smeekens s. p. vlamakis h. jaeger m. oosting m. franzosa e. a. ter horst r. jansen t. jacobs l. bonder m. j. kurilshikov a. fu j. joosten l. a. zhernakova a. huttenhower c. wijmenga c. netea m. g. xavier r. j.

59 12-22.rosser e. c. oleinika k. tonon s. doyle r. bosma a. carter n. a. harris k. a. jones s. a. klein n. mauri c. 2014 regulatory b cells are induced by gut microbiota-driven interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 production.

the microbiota for example has been shown to play a key role in driving early postnatal innate immune development in mice.27 neonatal antibiotic exposure has also been associated with increased susceptibility to late-onset sepsis in premature infants.28 the microbiota also plays a key role in shaping adaptive immune responses including the regulation of t helper 17 and regulatory t cell responses.29 interindividual variation in the composition and function of the gut microbiome of healthy adult humans has also been shown to be associated with the capacity for inflammatory cytokine produc- tion in blood stimulated with microbial ligands.30 given the growing list of ways that the microbiome can influence the immune system it would be surprising if the microbiome did not also influence vac- cine responses however evidence that this is the case is to date relatively limited.the influence of antibiotics on vaccine responses in animal models several lines of evidence now suggest that antibiotics can modu- late vaccine responses.

that study focused on adult mice further work is now needed to determine the impact of the microbiota in early life on infant vaccine responses.aside from flagellin the microbiota also produces a range of molecules that signal through other pattern recognition receptors prrs of the innate immune system and could also result in adjuvanted vaccine responses.38 recently for example recognition of the micro- biota by another prr nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain con- taining nod 2 has been found to be essential for the mucosal adju-vant activity of cholera toxin ct in mice intranasally immunized with the model ag human serum albumin hsa and ct.39 ct was essen- tial for the ag-specific responses to hsa.

for example germ-free mice monocol- onized with enterobacter and fed a high-fat diet developed obesity and insulin resistance and had elevated serum endotoxin levels and increased inflammation.46 increased serum endotoxin was probably caused by increased intestinal permeability allowing microbial prod- ucts to translocate out of the gut.4748 microbial translocation has been shown to be a cause of systemic immune activation in chronic hiv infection49 to worsen graft-vs.-host disease50 and to be a common feature of inflammatory bowel disease ibd.51 tlr4 signaling in b cells has also been shown to be critical in the production of circulat- ing microbiota-specific igg which can provide protection against sys- temic infection by certain bacteria.52 further work is now necessary to determine whether immune responses to vaccines are altered in mice or people who have been recently been exposed to antibiotics and have high levels of gut dysbiosis.cell-types mediating the effects of the microbiota on vaccine responses there are currently conflicting data on which cell types may medi- ate the effects of the microbiota on systemic vaccine responses.

b cells express a range of prrs that could sense microbial products pro- duced by the microbiota53 and regulatory b cells have been shown to be induced in the spleen and mesenteric lymph nodes mlns by gut microbiota-driven il-1b and -6.54 however the effect of flagellin on b cells which has been shown to be critical for tlr5-mediating sensing of the microbiota on influenza vaccine responses was shown to be relatively modest.35 instead ms were identified as playing a critical role in mediating the influence of the microbiota on antibody responses to the influenza vaccine.

previous work by the same group has shown that the expression of tlr5 a pattern recognition receptor for flagellin36 in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells was induced 3-7 d after vaccination and the level of tlr5 expression correlated with the magnitude of hemagglutination inhibition titers a measure of response to the influenza vaccine 4 wk later.5 a study in mice 35 subsequently showed that tlr5-mediated sensing of flagellin that was produced by the gut microbiota was necessary for antibody responses to the influenza vaccine as mice deficient for tlr5 had sub- stantially impaired responses to the vaccine at d 7 and 14 after vac- cination.

