healthy overweight-obese individuals were considered in the same group because they showed a similar lipid profile a. total- cholesterol values were similar among healthy normoweight healthy overweight-obese and mets groups .

plot analysis of overweight-obese versus mets groups a. plot analysis of overweight-obese and mets groups separated by ums b. hdl hdl-cholesterol ldl ldl-cholesterol non-hdl non- hdl-cholesterol tchol total cholesterol.overweight-obesity and even more in those individuals with mets.

flow of participants through the trial of healthy normoweight a healthy overweight-obese b and mets groups c.with the same assay system.

ultra performance liquid chromatography-electrolipid and lipoprotein profile plasma glycemia and urinary and fecal excretion of urolithin-a and isourolithin-a urolithin-b after dietary ets consumption were quantified in healthy normoweight healthy overweight-obese and mets groups .

in this case plasma glucose triglycerides hdl-cholesterol non-hdl- cholesterol as well as total-cholesterolhdl-cholesteroltable 1differences in bmi glycemia serum lipid markers and percentage of the three ums present in healthy normoweight healthy overweight-obese and mets volunteers.11.552.7 - 0.5b4.0 - 0.9b5.2 - 1.8a3.31.31values are expressed as mean - sd.

the associations between basal cmr factors and the urine urolithin metabolomic signature were explored in 20 healthy normoweight individuals consuming walnuts 30 gd 49 healthy overweight- obese individuals ingesting pomegranate extract 450 mgd and 25 metabolic syndrome mets pa- tients consuming nuts 15 g-walnuts 7.5 g-hazelnuts and 7.5 g-almondsd.results correlations between cmr factors and urolithins were found in overweight-obese individuals.

notably overweight-obese individuals with um-b were at increased cvd risk whereas um-a seemed to be a protective metabotype against cardiovascular risk factors.

we observed that differences between um-a and um-b and total- cholesterol and ldl-cholesterol values were significant only in overweight-obese individuals and mets group under statin treat- ment but not in the mets group free of statins.

in contrast the percentage of individuals with um- a was lower in those individuals with mets 50 than in overweight-obese 57 and normoweight 70 groups.correlation between baseline serum markers and urolithinshealthy overweight-obese subjects with dyslipidemia but not subjected to any medical treatment were further investigated.

urolithin-a mostly present in um-a was positively correlated with apolipoprotein a-i p  bbyang eols huai huai ge  0.05 and intermediate-hdl-cholesterol p  bbyang eols huai huai ge  0.05 while urolithin-b and isourolithin-a characteristic from um-b were positively correlated with total-cholesterol ldl-cholesterol p  bbyang eolshuai huai ge  0.001 apolipoprotein b p  bbyang eolshuai huai ge  0.01 vldl-cholesterol idl-cholesterol oxidized-ldl and apolipoprotein bapolipoprotein a-i ratio p  bbyang eolshuai huai ge  0.05. in mets patients urolithin-a only correlated inversely with glucose p  bbyang eols huai huai ge  0.05. statin-treated mets pa- tients with um-a showed a lipid profile similar to that of healthy normoweight individuals while a poor response to lipid-lowering therapy was observed in mb patients.conclusions ums are potential cmr biomarkers.

both healthy normoweight and overweight-obese groups of subjects were compared with mets patients.materials and methodsintervention studies and study productshuman nutritional intervention studies were conducted in line with the helsinki declaration.

similar levels of triglycerides total-cholesterol ldl-cholesterol non-hdl- cholesterol and ldl-cholesterolhdl-cholesterol ratio were also found in both healthy overweight-obese and mets groups.

some differences between healthy normoweight and overweightobese groups were also observed in serum markers mainly in ldl-cholesterol hdl-cholesterol concentrations and ldl-cholesterolhdl-cholesterol ratio .the percentage of individuals with um-b was higher in mets 41 than in overweight-obese 31 and normoweight groups 20 .

in the healthy overweight-obese and mets groups represented by pca.

showed that thetable 2 significant correlations between glucose lipid profile and lipoprotein particles and the urinary excretion of main urolithins and metabotype factor in healthy overweight-obese individuals.1 significant at p 0.001 p 0.01 and p 0.05. standard deviation.3 spearman correlation.4 kendall correlation.5 anova.6 to convert glucose to mgdl divide by 0.0555.7 to convert insulin to miuml divide by 6.945.8 homa-ir fasting glucose mmoll fasting insulin miuml22.5.9 to convert triglycerides to mgdl divide by 0.0113.10 to convert cholesterol to mgdl divide by 0.0259.vascular benefits associated to the equol-producer metabotype were related to the specific gut microbial environment rather than to the direct effect exerted by the metabolite equol.in the present study we examined the correlation between ums and a panel of serum lipids that provide an additional cvd risk cri- terion beyond classical target ldl levels.

