the retrieved otus were distributed among 12 phyla 89 families and 170 genera.the highest shannon diversity index values were observed in the mothers' gut and oral microbiota and these communities differed significantly from the infants' gut and oral microbiota that harbored significantly lower microbial diversity p  0.001. the diversity of the microbial communities did not change significantly during the analyzed time period supplementary figure .similarity between infants' gut and oral microbiota versus mothers' microbial communities from various sites.

these otus had low relative abundance 0.01 in both the infants' and mothers' oral microbiota.most of the otus observed in the infants' gut and oral microbiota were simultaneously shared with several of the maternal community types and we did not observe significantly higher probability of the otus dominating infants' gut and oral microbiota being shared with a specific maternal community type over other maternal com- munity types.

on lower taxonomic levels streptococcaceae dominated 0.7 0.18 followed by pasteurellaceae 0.08 0.09. the infants' oral microbiota was relatively stable during the time period studied supplementary figure  and was very similar among the infants.the gut and oral microbiota of the twins in this study did not exhibit a greater similarity among these paired siblings than was observed among the other infants mean sd csi 0.35 0.38 vs. 0.32 0.34 and 0.76 0.24 vs.0.75 0.22 for the gut and oral microbiota among twins vs. the rest of the infants respectively.

dominance of the same otus mapped to genus streptococcus in infants' and mothers' oral microbiota indicates that mother's oral microbiota has the biggest influence on the development of infants' oral microbiota during the first six months of life because members of streptococcus are the predominant habitants of oral microbiota in both infants and adults.

the disparity between the similarity and the proportion of the otus shared between infants' and mothers' gut microbiota might be related to lower diversity and therefore competition in infants' gut microbiota.the composition of gut and oral microbiota develops during the first years of an infant's life with coloniza- tion of the gastrointestinal tract and oral cavity beginning immediately after birth.

also gut and oral microbiota of infants born vaginally versus via caesarean section did not exhibit greater similarity 0.22 0.16 vs. 0.35 0.38 and 0.8 0.12 vs. 0.73 0.24 for the gut and oral microbiota among infants born vaginally vs. via caesarean section respectively.the composition of microbial communities colonizing the mothers.

infants' gut and oral microbiota at every analyzed time point was compared to vaginal microbiota observed in mothers before giving birth.discussionto our knowledge this is one of the first studies to analyze the effect of mothers' microbiota of various body sites to infants' gut and oral microbiota.

may be related to the lower species diversity supplementary figure  and therefore competition in infants' gut microbiota as hypothesized by asnicar et al.. relatively low levels of otus shared between infant's and one's own mother's gut microbiota and considerable numbers of otus shared between the infant's gut microbiota and microbiota colonizing one's own mother's oral cavity and mammary areola may on the other hand be related to the delivery mode of the infants participating in this study as most of them were born via caesarean section supplementary table .

here microbiota present in the mothers' gut vagina breast milk oral cavity and mammary areola were compared with the gut and oral microbiota of their infants over the first six months following birth.

in contrast the infants' oral microbiota as well as the mothers' breast milk microbiota mammary areola microbiota and oral microbiota exhibited high similarity to each other.although approximately 63 of the otus observed in an infant's gut microbiota were also observed in the mother's gut microbiota fig.

.the gut microbiota of the infants did not share similarities with any of the analyzed maternal community types throughout the study yet high similarity was observed between the infants' oral microbiota and the micro- biota colonizing the mothers' breast milk the mammary areola and the oral cavity fig.

galacto-oligosaccharides and polyfructose.in conclusion the infants' gut microbiota was found to be dissimilar from all of the maternal community types which were analyzed in this study while the infants' oral microbiota exhibited a high similarity with the mothers' oral breast milk and mammary areola microbiota.

openreceived 10 march 2017accepted 25 july 2017 published xx xx xxxxthe influence of different maternal microbial communities on the development of infant gut and oral microbiotatiina drell123 jelena stsepetova2 jaak simm31011 kristiina rull67 aira aleksejeva6 anne antson45 vallo tillmann45 madis metsis12 epp sepp2 andres salumets1789  reet mandar12very few studies have analyzed how the composition of mother's microbiota affects the development of infant's gut and oral microbiota during the first months of life.

a majority of the operational taxonomic units in infant gut and oral microbiota were also shared with the mothers' gut and oral communities respectively.

email figure 1. the number and type of samples that were collected from the mother-infant pairs at each of the time points indicated.therefore the aim of this study was to compare the effect of different maternal microbial communities-intes- tinal vaginal oral breast milk and mammary areola-on the development of the infants' gut and oral microbiota during the first six months of an infant's life.material and methodsstudy group and sampling.

