the most frequent pathogenic species detected in tonsils from cases were staphylococcus aureus 48.6 67138 and haemophilus influenzae 31.9 44138 which were found more frequently in patient samples than in samples from healthy volunteers p  0.0001. importantly 4154 75.9 s. aureus isolates were biofilm producers 18 weak and 23 strong whereas 1725 68 h. influenzae isolates were bio- film producers 10 weak and 7 strong biofilm producers.

when considering the presence of il1b-31c plus s. aureus il1b-31c plus s. aureus biofilm producer il1b-31c plus h. influenzae or il1b-31c plus h. influenzae bio- film producer the or tended to infinite.

from patients with recurrent tonsillitis extracted tonsils partially macerated and tonsil swabs were cultured by standard methods.biofilm production by s. aureus and h. influenzae isolates was semi-quantified spectropho- tometrically at an optical density of 595 nm od595 od595  0.12 non-biofilm producers 0.13od595  0.24 weak biofilm producers and od595  0.25 strong biofilm producers after crystal violet staining according to methods previously reported either for s. aureus  or for h. influenzae  .

when we added the bacterial factor s. aureus and h. influenzae plus the production of biofilm the or increased to infinite.given these results we hypothesize that a genetically conditioned inflammatory response by the presence of il1b-31c allele and the infection with s. aureus andor h. influenzae may lead to recurrent tonsillitis.

cultures from extracted tonsils presented a higher diversity and quantity of potential pathogens the most frequently detected pathogens were s. aureus 67138 48.6 h. influenzae 44138 31.9 and s. pyogenes 21138 15.2 .we randomly selected 54 s. aureus isolates for biofilm evaluation and detected that 4154 75.9 were biofilm producers 18 weak and 23 strong.

0.9853 in 138 cases and 195 controls.when we considered the presence of il1b-31c plus s. aureus il1b-31c plus s. aureusbiofilm producer il1b-31c plus h. influenzae il1b-31c plus h. influenzae biofilm producer the or tended to infinite .discussionin this study we aimed to analyze the immunogenetic and microbiological contributions to the development of recurrent tonsillitis.

research articlethe carriage of interleukin-1b-31c allele plus staphylococcus aureus and haemophilus influenzae increases the risk of recurrent tonsillitis in a mexican populationbaltazar gonza'lez-andrade1 ramiro santos-lartigue1 samantha flores-trevino2 natalie sonia ramirez-ochoa3 paola bocanegra-ibarias2 francisco j. huerta-torres2soraya mendoza-olazara'n2 licet villarreal-trevino4 adria'n camacho-ortiz5 hipo'lito villarreal-va'zquez4 elvira garza-gonza'lez21 servicio de otorrinolaringolog'ia hospital universitario dr. jose' eleuterio gonza'lez universidad auto'noma de nuevo leo'n monterrey nuevo leon mexico 2 servicio de gastroenterolog'ia hospitaluniversitario dr. jose' eleuterio gonza'lez universidad auto'noma de nuevo leo'n monterrey nuevo leon mexico 3 hospital materno infantil de alta especialidad secretaria de salud de nuevo leon monterrey nuevo leon mexico 4 departamento de microbiolog'ia facultad de ciencias biolo'gicas universidadauto'noma de nuevo leo'n monterrey nuevo leon mexico 5 coordinacio'n de epidemiolog'ia hospitalaria hospital universitario dr. jose' eleuterio gonza'lez universidad auto'noma de nuevo leo'n monterrey nuevo leo'n mexicoopen accesscitation gonza'lez-andrade b santos-lartigue r flores-trevino s ramirez-ochoa ns bocanegra- ibarias p huerta-torres fj et al.

2017 the carriage of interleukin-1b-31c allele plus staphylococcus aureus and haemophilus influenzae increases the risk of recurrent tonsillitis in a mexican population.

thus the presence of il1b-31c allele plus thepresence of s. aureus andor h. influenzae could be related to the development of tonsillitis in this particular mexican population.introductionrecurrent tonsillitis is a childhood disease that involves the parenchyma of the palatine tonsils.

options available for the treat- ment of recurrent disease are surgical and medical care with equal outcomes .recurrent tonsillitis has been linked to a wide variety of infectious agents  with the most common being streptococcus pyogenes followed by staphylococcus aureus and haemophilus influenzae -.in the development of recurrent tonsillitis the bacterial factor plays an important role but it may not be the only one because certain genetic backgrounds may be related to stronger inflammation.

though cultures from either a swab or extracted tonsil sample from the same patient were consistent in about 60 of the cases in the remaining 40 the cultures from extracted tonsils tended to have higher yields both in number and species diversity including pathogenic species.intracellular s. aureus has been reported as the most common cause of recurrent tonsillitis and it has been suggested that s. aureus uses the intracellular location to survive the effects of antibiotics and the host immune response  which could explain the discrepancy between genotype and allele frequencies of tnfa-308ga and il1b-31ct in recurrent tonsillitis and control patients.ns not significant.extracted tonsil and swab cultures in some cases as infected cells at deeper tissue layers would be missed in swab cultures of superficial cells.

over- all the most frequent pathogenic species were s. aureus and h. influenzae which is consistent with the literature  .the impact of biofilm formation has been previously reported in a case-control study that included 20 patients with recurrent tonsillitis and another 20 with no history of tonsillitis in the previous 2 years.

in this scenario the presence of h. influenzae and s. aureus especially in biofilms may have a role in the development of the tonsillar inflammatory disease and an inadequate pro-inflammatory genetic background may increase this role.

the main limitation of this study is that we included only culture for aerobic bacterial species and no anaerobic culture was performed and some anaerobic species may play a significant role in recurrent tonsillitis.in conclusion our results suggest that the presence of il1b -31c allele may be a tonsillitis-enhancing factor especially when species such as s. aureus or h. influenzae are present.

control strains were s. aureus atcc 29213 strong biofilm pro- ducer escherichia coli atcc 25922 weak biofilm producer and staphylococcus hominis atcc 27844 no biofilm producer.

