of the 6 most common phyla detected in both parities the mean rela- tive abundance mra of the firmicutes phylum was higher p  0.05 in samples of primiparous mra  46.1 se  1.8 than in multiparous cows mra  40.8 se  1.6 and the fusobacteria phylum were lower p  0.05 in samples of primiparous mra  2.8 se  0.6 than in multiparous cows mra  4.8 se  0.5 figure 2b.the 15 most common otu order family and ge-nus detected in colostrum samples of primiparous and multiparous cows are shown in figure 3a and more detailed findings at the quarter level are presented in figure 3b to e. genus bacteroides mra  1.1 and 2.5 se  0.4 and 0.3 for primiparous and multipa- rous respectively p  0.05 gacinetobacter mra 2.3 and 3.5 se  0.5 and 0.4 for primiparous and multiparous respectively p  0.05 gpseudo- monas mra  3.5 and 4.8 se  0.5 and 0.4 forprimiparous and multiparous respectively p  0.05 and gfusobacterium mra  2.8 and 5.0 se  0.6 and 0.5 for primiparous and multiparous respectively p  0.08 were either significantly higher or tended to be significantly higher in colostrum samples of mul- tiparous cows than in primiparous cows figure 3a.

fresh cows were first milked within 8 h of calving in the double 52-stall parallel milking parlor.prepartum heifers and cows were given a high-fiberlow-energy density diet whereas postpartum cows were given a low-fiber content high-energy density diet derived from higher starch and fat supplementation.the diet was formulated to meet or exceed the nutrient requirements for lactating holstein cows weighing 650 kg and producing 45 kg of 3.5 fcm nrc 2001.sample collectionone member of our research group collected individ- ual colostrum quarter samples aseptically at the first milking within 24 h of parturition.

the microbial community of ncmc samples of primiparous cows was significantly more diverse than that of cmc samples and the rela- tive abundances of the tenericutes and fusobacteria phyla as well as the mycoplasma and fusobacterium genera were significantly higher in ncmc than in cmc samples of primiparous cows.

ge- nus staphylococcus gpseudomonas gfusobacterium gmycoplasma gcorynebacterium gstreptococcus and gescherichia were subjected to more detailed analyses figure 5a and b. genus fusobacterium and gmycoplasma were relatively more abundant p 0.05 in cmc than in ncmc samples of primipa-rous cows figure 5a and gstreptococcus tended to be more abundant in cmc than in ncmc samples of multiparous cows figure 5b.the colostrum core microbiome defined as the set of microbial organisms persistently present in all samples evaluated regardless of parity or colostrum category was assessed.

however the presence of strict anaerobic bac- teria such as gfusobacterium gprevotella gbacte- roides and oclostridiales in our study indicates thatthe complex colostrum microbial community that we described is likely an accurate representation of the colostrum microbiome and not merely a result of teat skin contamination.our results showed that cmc samples from primipa- rous cows were less diverse than ncmc samples from cows of this same parity however the same was not the case for multiparous animals.

staphylococcus my- coplasma and streptococcus spp.. our results indicate that the colostrum microbiome of primiparous cows dif- fers from that of multiparous cows and it harbors some diversity and taxonomic markers of mammary gland health specific to primiparous cows only.received june 13 2016.accepted december 13 2016.1 corresponding author key words colostrum mastitis microbiomeintroductioncolostrum is a complex biological fluid that supports the growth and health of the neonate ogra et al.

furthermore we found differences in the bacterial taxonomic structure of colostrum between primiparous and multiparous cows as well as between ncmc and cmc of primiparous cows.another interesting finding of our study is that thecolostrum microbiota of primiparous cows was richer than that of multiparous cows.

a dagger  represents 0.05  p  0.1 and asterisk  represents p  0.05. cmc  clinical mastitic colostrum ncmc  nonclinical mastitic colostrum.the chao 1 richness and shannon diversity indexes were calculated to obtain estimates of community di- versity figures 1a-d. the chao 1 index was higher in primiparous than in multiparous cows p  0.05 figure 1a and tended to be higher in ncmc than in cmc samples of primiparous cows p  0.054 figure 1c.

colostrum samples from primiparous cows had a higher abundance p  0.05 of gstaphylococcus mra 19.4 and 13.6 se  1.9 and 1.5 for primiparous and multiparous respectively p  0.05 when compared with multiparous cows figure 3a.

furthermore gstaphylococcus gfusobacterium gacinetobacter and gbacteroides were more abundant in colostrum samples of multiparous cows than in primiparous cows.

among the most common phyla detected in the ncmc and cmc samples of primiparous and multiparous cows figure 4b the relative abundances of the tenericutes mra  5.6 and 2.1 se  1.4 and 0.7 for cmcand ncmc respectively and fusobacteria mra 5.8 and 2.8 se  0.9 and 0.5 for cmc and ncmc respectively phyla were higher p  0.05 in the cmcfigure 2. aggregate microbiome composition at the phylum level for 16s rrna sequences of colostrum samples a and the mean relative abundance of fusobacterium and firmicutes phyla according to parity b. error bars are positioned around the means and represent the sem.

the colostrum microbiota of pri- miparous cows was significantly richer higher number of bacterial species than that of multiparous cows and differences in colostrum taxonomic structure between parities were also observed.

all postpartum cows that were first milked within 8 h after parturition from november to december of 2013 were eligible to be enrolled in this study and a total of 100 holstein dairy cows were sampled at first milking.

during the study period the average milk production per cow per day was 40 kg se  4.41 and the incidence of mastitis was 19.2. following the farm's protocol lactating pregnant cows were submitted to a dry period of 60 d and at dry off multiparous cows received intramam- mary antibiotic therapy orbenin-dc merck animal health kenilworth nj.

pregnant heifers and cows were housed together in freestall barns with concrete stalls covered with rubber mattresses and bedded with dried manure solids separated from the lactating cows.

