the antiparasitic function of pgrplc is linked to the induction of the imd pathway due to the microbial growth following a blood meal 1. we then focused on pgrpla and pgrplb as their drosophila orthologs are known to positively and negatively regulate the imd pathway respectively 7 8. we investigated whether their effect on parasite infections was mediated by similar regulatory roles on the anopheles imd pathway.pgrpla is a positive regulator of the imd pathway in the midgutfirst we investigated the role of pgrpla in the induction of antimicrobial peptides in the midgut where its drosophila ortholog positively affects immune responses.

we reveal that pgrpla has an antiparasitic effect and positively regulates the imd pathway similar to what was shown previously for pgrplc 1. although our data suggest that pgrpla1 and pgrpla2 affect negatively p. berghei and p. falciparum respectively previous experiments performed in our laboratory using the g3 mosquito strain infected with p. berghei revealed an antiparasitic function for pgrpla2 20. as both isoforms share the exons encoding the intracellular domain including the rhim motif and are predicted not to bind peptidoglycan we hypothesize that their differential effects on imd pathway activation and anti-plasmodium responses depend on their expression levels rather than functional differences.

these reactions include the nf-kbimmune-deficiency imd pathway that kills parasites in the midgut lumen and epithelium through an as yet uncharacterized mechanism 1 2 and a complement-like pathway that eliminates ookinetes soon after crossing the epithelium and before transforming into oocysts 3.in drosophila the imd pathway is elicited by bacterial peptidoglycan via the peptidoglycan recognition protein pgrp lc 4 5. this pathway is highly regulated in a tissue-dependent fashion.

the rhim domain of pgrpla1 is highly conserved with that of drosophila pgrpla which is shown to induce the imd pathway 8. theobserved increase in the antiparasitic effect of pgrpla1 silencing upon bacterial challenge suggests that pgrpla1 also participates in a bacterium-mediated induction of the imd pathway perhaps through heterodimerization with pgrplc.

b c forest plots showing the effect of knocking down anopheles pgrp genes on the intensity b and prevalence c of p. falciparum infection resulting from the same experiments as data shown in a. statistical data show the result of a wald z test following zero-inflated negative binomial regression model fitting b and of an anova following a logistic regression model fitting c. the center and horizontal diagonal of each diamond show the odds ratio of the fixed effect and its confidence interval respectively.

in our experimental setting the role of pgrplb on plasmodium infection is probably reduced due to the fact that pgrplb is itself a target of the imd pathway 30 hence its silencing may induce imd pathway activation leading to its overexpression.

we also show that pgrpla1 and pgrplb positively and negatively regulate the anopheles imd pathway respectively similarly to their drosophila orthologs.materials and methodsethics statementexperiments performed in the uk were carried out in accordance with the uk animals scientific procedures act 1986. mosquito infections with plasmodium berghei by blood feeding on parasitized mice were approved by the imperial college ethical review committee and carried out under the uk home office license ppl706347.

in that respect published data suggest that pgrpla1 and pgrpla2 expression differs between mosquito strains and plasmodium infection stages 21 22 23 24 and we found that pgrpla2 expression is 14 and 10 times lower than that of pgrpla1 in the midguts of sugar- and blood-fed mosquitoes of our colony respectively.

induction of the imd pathway by heterodimerization has been reported in drosophila between pgrplcx which binds peptidoglycan and pgrplca which does not 25.our results also identify pgrplb as a negative regulator of the imd pathway promoting tolerance to p. falciparum.

b c forest plots showing the effect of knocking down anopheles pgrp genes on the intensity b and prevalence c of p. berghei infection resulting from the same experiments as data shown in a. statistical data show the result of a wald z test following zero-inflated negative binomial regression model fitting.

we followed the expression of cecropin1 cec1 an antibacterial gene induced by the imd pathway in the midguts of sugar- and blood-fed mosquitoes 3 and 4 days after dsrna injection respectively in order to follow the blood meal-induced imd response 1. we found that cec1 was induced 4.9-fold in the midgut of blood-fed versus sugar-fed mosquitoes.

this prompted us to investigate whether the pgrp domain of pgrpla1 as previously reported in drosophila pgrpla and anopheles pgrpla2 lacks essential features for peptidoglycan binding 8. indeed sequence alignment revealed that 810 amino acids involved in binding peptidoglycan in pgrplcx are absent from pgrpla1 .pgrplb downregulates systemic induction of the imd pathwaywe also investigated whether pgrplb is a negative regulator of the imd pathway similarly to its drosophila ortholog 6 7. according to vectorbase annotations pgrplb encodes 2 isoforms which share the same pgrp domain and differ in their transmembrane domains .

20138e61408.pmcid pmc3634070 pubmed 23626680fossog tene b poupardin r costantini c awono-ambene p wondji cs ranson h antonio- nkondjio c. vectorbase agap005205 expression in experiment ddt resistant field isolates.accessed january 6 2017.mendes am awono-ambene ph nsango se cohuet a fontenille d kafatos fc christophides gk morlais i vlachou d. vectorbase agap005205 expression in experiment plasmodium falciparummendes20et2 0al.202011 accessed january 6 2017.mendes am awono-ambene ph nsango se cohuet a fontenille d kafatos fc christophides gk morlais i vlachou d. infection intensity-dependent responses of anopheles gambiae to the african malaria parasite plasmodium falciparum.

in the malaria vector mosquito anopheles coluzzii the peptidoglycan receptor pgrplc activates the immune-deficiency imd pathway limiting both the microbiota load and plasmodium infection.

in the tsetse fly pgrplb is shown to be a negative regulator of the imd pathway participating in tolerance to symbionts 28 and also to have a direct antiparasitic effect against trypanosomes 29. our results do not point to such an antiparasitic effect of anopheles pgrplb against plasmodium.

