mean glucose-sd levels were 86-8 mgdl and median 25th 75th percentile insulin and homa-ir values were 96 13 muml and 1.91.3 2.8 respectively.inflammation fasting glucose insulin and insulin resistanceafter multivariable adjustment the inflammatory score was positively associated with glucose insulin and homa-ir all p  0.05 figure 2. in regression models that simultaneously included crp adiponectin tnf-a and il-6 crp were directly associated with insulin and homa-ir while adiponectin was inversely associated with glucose insulin and homa-ir.

18 individual taxa were associated with inflammation p  0.05 and 22 with insulin resistance p  0.05. no findings met bonferroni-adjusted statistical significance.conclusion--bacterial measures were related to inflammation and insulin resistance among diabetes-free adults.keywordsphrasesinflammation c-reactive protein interleukin-6 tumor necrosis factor-a adiponectin insulin resistance diabetes microbiota microbiome periodontalintroductionchronic systemic inflammation has been linked to increased risk of insulin resistance and the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus t2dm pradhan et al.

the homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance homa-ir was derived from fasting insulin and glucose matthews et al.

1998.these data are cross-sectional and cannot infer temporality of associations between the microbiota inflammatory markers and insulin resistance and it is possible that glucose and insulin levels in the clinically normal range might have influenced the subgingival microbiota rather than the reverse as previous suggested in the context of periodontitis risk timonen et al.

2017 march  443 255-265. doi10.1111jcpe.12664.the subgingival microbiome systemic inflammation and insulin resistance the oral infections glucose intolerance and insulin resistance study originsryan t. demmer1 alexander breskin1 michael rosenbaum2 aleksandra zuk3 charles leduc2 rudolph leibel2 bruce paster4 moise desvarieux15 david r. jacobs jr.6 and panos n. papapanou71department of epidemiology mailman school of public health columbia university new york ny2division of molecular genetics departments of pediatrics and medicine columbia university new york new york3dalla lana school of public health university of toronto toronto canada4department of molecular genetics the forsyth institute cambridge ma department of oral medicine infection and immunity harvard school of dental medicine boston ma5centre de recherche epidemiologies et biostatistique inserm u1153 equipe methodes en evaluation therapeutique des maladies chroniques paris france6division of epidemiology and community health school of public health university of minnesota minneapolis mn7division of periodontics section of oral and diagnostic sciences college of dental medicine columbia university new york nyabstractbackground--inflammation might link microbial exposures to insulin resistance.

2009. mechanistically this might be explained by the ability of inflammatory molecules to interfere with cellular insulin signaling pathways hotamisligil et al.

2014. similarlydemmer et al.page 3a number of observational studies indicate that periodontitis is associated with insulin resistance demmer et al.

however these findings lacked statistical significance after bonferroni adjustment for multiple comparisons in this relatively small sample and require confirmation in larger studies.the observation that phylum-level measures of the subgingival microbiota were related to systemic inflammation and insulin resistance is consistent with previous studies of the subgingival microbiota in relation to periodontitis that have shown firmicutes abusleme et al.

specifically the following taxa were positively associated with either insulin resistance or inflammation and also have been reported to be overly abundant in periodontitis parvimonas micra formerly micromonas micros and peptostreptococcos micros colombo et al.

associations between the microbiota and both inflammation and homa-ir were explored using multivariable linear regressions mediation analyses assessed the proportion of the association explained by inflammation.results--the is was inversely associated with actinobacteria and proteobacteria and positively associated with firmicutes and tm7 p-values  0.05. proteobacteria levels were associated with insulin resistance p  0.05. inflammation explained 30-98 of the observed associations between levels of actinobacteria proteobacteria or firmicutes and insulin resistance p-values  0.05.

2015. therefore broad characterization of the subgingival microbiota in relation to systemic inflammation and diabetes risk has the potential to identify unique microbial signatures linked to early diabetes risk thereby improving future research designs and informing clinical practice.in the present work we have examined the relationship between levels of over 300 subgingival bacteria and markers of systemic inflammation and insulin resistance concurrently among diabetes-free adults enrolled in the oral infections glucose intolerance and insulin resistance study origins.

original signals  2 times the background value were reset to 1 and assigned a value  0. all the values 1 were categorized into scores 1-5 based on signal intensity.assessment of insulin resistance and inflammationblood was collected following an overnight fast and plasma glucose and insulin levels were measured.

2012 we hypothesized a priori that actinobacteria and proteobacteria would be inversely associated with inflammation and insulin resistance while bacteroidetes firmicutes and spirochetes would be positively associated with inflammation and insulin resistance.

when comparing 3rd tertile vs. 1st tertile for proteobacteria both insulin and homa-ir values were decreased by 20 figure 4. in contrast a comparison of 3rd vs. 1st tertile levels of firmicutes yielded insulin and homa-ir values that were 20 higher although these results were not statistically significant figure 4 supplemental table 2b.among the four phyla statistically significantly associated with the inflammatory score for which formal mediation analyses were appropriate three demonstrated statistically significant mediated effects table 1 supplemental table 2c.

2009.aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans p. gingivalis t. denticola and t. forsythia species traditionally believed to play a pathogenic role in periodontitis socransky and haffajee 2005 were not associated with inflammation or insulin resistance in this study and we observed inverse associations between t. denticola and insulin resistance.

