for permissions e-mail doi 10.1093cidcix285the etiology of hs is unclear but likely multifactorial with participation of genetic and immunological factors 3-5. an infectious component was suspected very early on but the microbiology of hs remains poorly described and controversial due to methodological issues 6-12. using optimized culture and identification methods we recently showed that 2 micro- biological profiles are associated with hs lesions depending on their clinical severity 13. a pure or predominant culture of staphylococcus lugdunensis a particularly virulent coagu- lase-negative staphylococcus species that can cause soft tissue and skin infections in healthy individuals was associated with 25 of nodules and solitary abscesses.

a pure or predominant culture of s. lugdunensis was recovered from 22 of samples and aerobic skin commensals in 18 of cases.staphylococcus aureus abscesses were observed in only 2 cases.to identify other bacterial species or groups associated with hs lesions we compared the microbiology of polymi- crobial hs lesions with that of uninvolved patients' skinfolds figure 1b and table 2. streptococcus anginosus and anaerobic actinomycetes a. turicensis a. radingae and actinotignum actinobaculum schaalii were cultured from 32 and 26 of lesions samples compared to 3 and 2 of controls respec- tively fdr 3 x 10-11 and 10-9. streptococcus dysgalactiae an opportunistic skin pathogen not previously associated with hs was recovered from lesions but never from normal skin- fold surfaces fdr 8 x 10-3. the microbiology of these lesions did not vary according to location supplementary table 1. staphylococcus aureus was associated with lesions fdr 10--2 but was never cultured as a predominant pathogen.

we show that the microbiology of hs lesions strikingly differs from that of patients' nonlesional skin- folds confirm that s. lugdunensis a virulent coagulase-negative staphylococcus species is associated with mild hs lesions and demonstrate that specific anaerobic bacteria proliferate within a vast majority of lesions.two predominant anaerobic gram-negative rods were enriched in anaerobic hs lesions prevotella and porphyromonas.

however hs is primarily a disease of the terminal hair follicle 28. in non- inflamed skin areas hyperkeratosis of the follicular epithelium occlusion and perifollicular lymphohistiocytic inflammation are typical histological patterns of hs 29. conversely neu- trophilic abscesses and influx of monocytic and dendritic cells in association with free keratin debris or with giant cells are observed in cases of acute hs lesions.

medical treatments of hs currently allow improvement but rarely sustained remission of the disease 1. consequently hs is one of the most handicapping skin affec- tions resulting in multiple emergency hospitalizations surger- ies sick leaves and invalidity 2.received 12 november 2016 editorial decision 13 march 2017 accepted 27 march 2017published online april 1 2017.correspondence o. join-lambert laboratoire de microbiologie hopital necker-enfants malades 149 rue de sevres 75015 paris france olivier.join-lambertinserm.fr.clinical infectious diseasesr 2017652282-91c the author 2017. published by oxford university press for the infectious diseases society of america.

inflammation in hs can be improved by anti-tumor necrosis factor tnf alpha treatments 2. however antibiotics such as carbapenems which do not express immunomodulatory properties can lead to clinicalremission or dramatic improvements of lesions 14 15. these clinical observations led us to hypothesize that inflammation in hs may be partly driven by specific anaerobic bacteria.

in a given patient the patient's hurley stage corresponds to the clinical severity of the most severe hs lesion.this project was approved by the ethical committee comite de protection des personnes ile de france 2.samplesto identify bacterial taxa associated with hs lesions we com- pared the microbiology of lesions to that of nonaffected patients' skinfold areas.

a max- imum of 10 different colonies growing under aerobic conditions were identified per sample by matrix-assisted laser desorptionnumber of clinically uninvolved skinfoldssamples175ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry.armpit n 36 24inguinal fold n 60 40gluteal fold n 21 14buttocks and tights n 17 11breast n 5 3other n 10 7abbreviations hs hidradenitis suppurativa sd standard deviation.ain a given patient the hurley stage corresponds to the clinical severity of hisher most severe hs area.dna extraction amplification and high-throughput sequencingafter thawing samples were concentrated to a final volume of 100 ul in polymerase chain reaction pcr distilled water by centrifugation.

statistical com- parison of principal component coordinates of microbiomes according to sample characteristics was computed using anal- ysis of variance.to compare taxa relative abundances we used a negative binomial regression model to take into account the overdisper- sion of taxa counts between samples.all statistical tests were considered significant if the p value was 0.05. for multiple comparisons procedures p values were adjusted by the false discovery rate fdr method.resultsmicrobiology of hs lesions as assessed by bacterial culturesthe most prevalent microbiological profile associated with hs lesions was a polymorphous anaerobic microbiota combined with normal skin commensals 83 of lesions vs 53 of con- trol samples p  10-4 figure 1 and supplementary figure 1. anaerobes were recovered from 95 and 100 of hurley stage 2 and 3 lesions respectively compared to 54 of hurley stage 1 lesions figure 1a.

and dermabacter hominis was significantly lower in lesions than in control samples table 2.these data confirm the association of atypical bacterial path- ogens with hs lesions contrasting with a low abundance of aer- obic skin commensals 13.hs lesions harbor microbiomes distinct from those of patients' unaffected skinfoldsconsidering the above results and the lack of information on the composition of the anaerobic lesional microbiota284  cid 201765 15 july  guet-revillet et alfigure 1. microbiology of hidradenitis suppurativa hs as assessed by bacterial cultures.

in addition f. nuclea- tum has a particular ability to aggregate with a variety of oral bacteria promoting biofilm formation 24. the association of fusobacterium with severe hs lesions may account for their high inflammatory clinical presentation.the pathogenicity of these anaerobic commensal bacteria in hs probably results from copathogenicity 26 and adap- tive properties.

although not demonstrated yet in hs it is likely that the high abundance of prevotella and porphyromonas in hs lesions reflects similar adaptive and pathogenic properties.modification of the skin microbiome has been reported in inflammatory skin diseases and it not always clear whether skin dysbiosis may cause or is a consequence of the disease.

the low pathogenicity of the anaerobic bacteria identified here could explain the chronicity of hs lesions and the absence of systemic dissemination of the infectious process.the clinical presentation of the disease with a high frequency of acute skin abscesses and the sometimes real efficacy of tnf- blocking agents suggest that hs is not primarily an infec- tious disease but rather a skin barrier disease that predisposes patients to recurrent infections.

a recent study demonstrated that keratinocytes isolated from hs patients exhibit a proin- flammatory profile and a dysregulated production of antimi- crobial peptides 4. considering that antimicrobial peptides exert both antimicrobial and immuno-modulatory effects 30 this could explain the inability of the host to clear the pathobi- onts identified here.anaerobes of hidradenitis suppurativa  cid 201765 15 july  289figure 3. variations of hidradenitis suppurativa hs lesion microbiota according to the clinical severity of the disease.

further studies should focus on this issue using shotgun sequencing.conclusionsin this study we demonstrate that specific anaerobic commensals with particular pathogenic traits proliferate within hs lesions pro- viding a rationale for antibiotic treatments of hs.

