therefore consti- pation is a risk factor for pd as well as an early prodromal nms of pd.table 1 gastrointestinal nonmotor symptoms with their anatomic site of presentation possible causes resulting consequences and the corresponding reference in pdanatomicpharynx esophagusimpaired taste pd progression with involvement of the frontal operculum or orbitofrontal cortex as impaired taste is associated with impaired cognitive function and advanced stage of pddysfunction seems to rely on a specific tongue regionchemosensory interaction with olfaction and decreased trigeminal functiondysphagia pd motor symptoms bradykinesia and rigiditycentral basal ganglia dysfunction with hypometabolism in the supplementary motor area and the anterior cingulate cortexperipheral dysfunction of motor and sensorypharyngeal nervesnone as the majority of pd patients does not notice any change in taste perception ineveryday lifeincreased risk of aspiration with respiratory infectionweight loss and malnutrition        and   and continuedtable 1 gastrointestinal nonmotor symptoms with their anatomic site of presentation possible causes resulting consequences and the corresponding reference in pd--cont'danatomicclinically constipation associated with pd can be classified as either slow- transit constipation caused by prolonged intestinal passage   or outlet constipa- tion caused by anorectal dysfunction patients might experience one or both  .

recognition of gi nms as prodromal markers of pd as well as a better understanding of the brain-gut connection offers new insights in the pathophysiology of pd and might provide the opportunity of pd diagnosis before cns involvement.

regular assessment of gi nms and a specific treatment is of major importance in the long-term care of pd patients.next to being bothersome nms constipation serves as an early premotor symptom of pd and is valued as a risk factor for developing pd .

furthermore increased intestinal transit times have been recorded in treated and untreated pd patients as well as in pd patients without symptomatic constipation .pathological investigations have indicated that the neuropathological changes in pd follow a specific chronological and regional pattern  .

unfortunately the strength of these findings have been questioned by another group analyzing the same dataset with an expanded time frame and using different statistical analysis .conclusiongi nms are exceptional in pd as on the one hand they need to be monitored and treated throughout the course of pd as they are serious to take and quality of life reducing nms and on the other hand constipation serves as an early prodromal marker and risk factor for pd.

.adams-carr k. l. bestwick j. p. shribman s. lees a. schrag a.  noyce a. j.

.minguez-castellanos a. chamorro c. e. escamilla-sevilla f. ortega-moreno a. rebollo a. c. gomez-rio m. et al.

furthermore constipation serves as a risk factor for pd as well as an early prodromal nms of pd.

this chapter covers the variety of gi nms and its consequences in pd as well as the important role of the gut as part of the pathological process in pd.international review of neurobiology volume 134 2017 elsevier inc.issn 0074-7742all rights reserved.787788lisa klingelhoefer and heinz reichmannintroductiongastrointestinal gi nonmotor symptoms nms are common in patients with parkinson's disease pd.

corresponding to this clinical observation the braak staging system postu- lates that pd is a neurodegenerative disorder of both the brain and the gut as the neuropathological process of pd seems to start in the enteric nervous system ens of the gut in some extent.

therefore not a singlethe gut and nonmotor symptoms in parkinson's disease789causative factor but rather a multifactorial process resulting from interac- tions between genetic defects environmental factors and an individual sus- ceptibility are important for pd development affecting different anatomical structures and neurotransmitters  .gi symptoms in pdgi symptoms are commonly observed at all stages of pd   with a higher percentage of complaints being observed in advanced disease stages .

the wide range of gi nms is summarized in providing the anatomic site of presentation possible causes and consequences of the most important gi nms in pd.constipation is one of the most common nms of pd with a prevalence of 28-80   and up to sixfold more common among pd patients than among age- and sex-matched con- trols  .

fur- thermore constipation is one of the earliest nms in pd being present up to 15 years before motor pd manifestation  .

in the honolulu heart program 6790 men without pd at baseline have been monitored for incidence of pd over 24 years .

therefore it is nowadays thought of pd being a syndrome rather than a disease .these hypotheses of pathological development and progression of pd are supported as well as challenged by findings in pathological studies animal studies and clinical observational studies.

