additionally a human gut mycobiome study comprised of 24 individuals with two sampling time points found that detection of the same fungus at both time points occurred less than 20 of the time while the gut mycobiome was found to be variable within individuals others have shown that the oral mycobiome stays fairly stable over time within an individual these results prompt a fundamental un- answered question in the field which if any fungi are truly colonizing the human gut it is known that the hu- man microbiome is greatly impacted by diet environ- ment and lifestyle -.

it is important to understand what constitutes a healthy human gut myco- biome as this allows for further understanding of fungal- bacterial and fungal-host interactions which may contribute to human health and disease.resultsfungal diversity and composition in healthy human stool to investigate gut fungal diversity and composition a total of 333 hmp stool sample microbial dna extrac- tions were retrieved and underwent its2 amplification and sequencing.

however the myco- biome was not investigated in initial hmp studies.using dna previously extracted from longitudinally collected stool samples two to three samples per volun- teer collected over an approximately 1-year period from hmp volunteers recruited at baylor college of medicine houston tx we characterized the healthy human gut mycobiome.

albicans were detected at all visits in 92.2 78.3 and 63.6 of volunteers respectively n  129 table although we observed great variability in the gut myco- biome among healthy volunteers these three fungal spe- cies present in a majority of longitudinally collected samples suggest they may be resident commensals in the human gastrointestinal tract and part of our core gut mycobiome.

to contribute to existing knowledge of the human mycobiome we investigated the gut mycobiome of the human microbiome project hmp cohort by sequencing the internal transcribed spacer 2 its2 region as well as the 18s rrna gene.results three hundred seventeen hmp stool samples were analyzed by its2 sequencing.

knowledge of a healthy mycobiome will aid in research identifying disease- contributing fungal species and better define fungal- bacterial relationships that are important for health.one of the initial goals of the human microbiome project hmp was to characterize the healthy human microbiome as a baseline for reference and comparison studies microbial communities in hmp healthy donor stool samples were largely comprised of bacteria from the bacteroidetes and firmicutes phyla but varied greatly between volunteers  although core oper- ational taxonomic units otus were identified in hmpdonor stool the relative abundance of these core otus were found to vary nearly 5000-fold this suggests that what constitutes a healthy gut microbiome can be very different among individuals.

our data suggest in line with conclusions from the hmp study that the majority of variation in the human microbiome is not explained well by availablephenotypic metadata and that other factors such as diet environment daily cycles and host genetics may play a larger role in influencing the human gut mycobiome.correlations between taxawe investigated taxa correlations by combining available 16s rrna gene and its2 sequencing data from the same samples.

because of the high abundance of bacterial dna in stool samples its2 sequencing may be both a more accurate and sensitive method fortable 3 top 10 most prevalent fungi found in metagenomic wgs sequencescharacterizing the human gut mycobiome providing greater resolution compared to moderately deep wgs sequencing.discussionprevious studies have examined fungal communities largely in small disease centric cohorts and information detailing the healthy human mycobiome in a large well- studied cohort is lacking.

microbiome 2017 5153doi 10.1186s40168-017-0373-4the gut mycobiome of the human microbiome project healthy cohortandrea k. nash1 thomas a. auchtung1 matthew c. wong1 daniel p. smith1 jonathan r. gesell1 matthew c. ross1 christopher j. stewart1 ginger a. metcalf2 donna m. muzny2 richard a. gibbs2 nadim j. ajami1 and joseph f. petrosino1abstractbackground most studies describing the human gut microbiome in healthy and diseased states have emphasized the bacterial component but the fungal microbiome i.e.

in humans fungi have been found to colonize the gut shortly after birth in a study investigating correlations of archaea and fungi with diet volunteers had an abundance of candida and saccharomyces species in their stool with high candida abundance associated with recent consumption of carbo- hydrates fungi have been implicated in the exacerba- tion of several human diseases including inflammatory bowel disease graft versus host disease hirschsprung- associated enterocolitis colorectal cancer and advanced progression of hepatitis b virus infections  -the confirmed presence of fungi as a part of the human micro- biome as well as their potential role as contributors to health and disease highlight the need to characterize the healthy human mycobiome more deeply.

c. this indicates that while longitudinal samples of one individual's fecal bacterial microbiome are more similar to each other than those of another individual this does not appear to be the case for the fecal mycobiome.stability of the mycobiometo investigate the stability of the mycobiome we mea- sured the recurrence of fungal otus across all samples as well as across each volunteers' longitudinal samples.

this study represents the first time the fecal mycobiome has been described in a large cohort of healthy individuals over 100 volunteers with longitu- dinal samples provided by each volunteer up to three samples per volunteer totaling 317 samples.

understanding what constitutes a normal or healthy gut mycobiome could assist in future research efforts to determine contributions of commensal fungi to the health of the host or the exacerbation of disease.methodssample collection and dna extractionstool samples were collected and dna was extracted as previously described in brief stool samples were collected and approximately 2 ml of stool was homoge- nized by vortexing in 5 ml of mo bio lysis buffer powerlyzer powersoil bead solution mo bio labora- tories.

in this study extracted dna from fecal samples from the human microbiome project was used to investigate what constitutes a normal gut mycobiome.

examining the mycobiome of the gut in relation to diet in a smaller set of healthy volunteers recognized saccharomyces and candida as prevalent members of the gut mycobiome but did not identify malassezia as a member of the gut mycobiota  the discrepancy between the hoffmann study and the re- sults in the current study are likely due to differences in study methodologies while this study amplified the its2 region of the fungal rrna operon hoffmann et al.

