..9.0.....5.3.2.1...5.. .4.7..7.9.0..8.9...1.0...1....2.......6..6....1.7.......4..0.1..7.

.8..9......2.. .1.4...4....2..9......7..0....2...2.3...0.

hopefully results will answer these questions and provide insight into the influ- ence of environmental factors on gene-microbe interactions and the potential role of intestinal bacteria in the onset and progression of graves' disease.fundingthis work was supported by people marie sklodowska-curie ac- tions marie curie industry-academia partnerships and pathways grant agreement number 612116.declaration of interestall authors declare that they have no competing interests.references.2..8.8.8...0.....2.7.........6.9.3.0...1.2...9.0....3.1.1..4..0..8.5.1.

current mechanisms suggested to lead to autoimmune processes after a bacterial infection include molecular mimicry epitope spreading bystander activation and cryptic antigens .in autoimmune thyroid diseases aitd especially hashimoto thy- roiditis ht and graves' disease gd evidence for possible bacterial involvement in onset and progression is based solely on retrospective measures of bacterial antibodies in aitd patients .

...3..4.4..... 9.... ...7.2.i..4.2..9.5.4.....6.7.

an understanding of the precise mechanisms of interaction between bacterial agents in inducing thyroid autoimmunity could result in the development of new strategies for prevention and treatment.this review aims to summarize current knowledge on the role of themicrobiota in thyroid autoimmunity and will focus on the bacterial component.autoimmune thyroid diseaseautoimmune disorders are a broad range of related diseases in which inappropriate immune responses of the body arise against its own cells tissue and organs resulting in inflammation and damage.

..5.8.6...0..5.. 4..9..0.........6.

the bacterial communities in these sites may have po- tential impact on aitd and to assess this a precise characterization of the bacterial diversity and metabolic profile of commensal bacteria from healthy persons is needed.due to its high vascularity good lymphatic drainage encapsulated po- sition and its generation of hydrogen peroxide for the synthesis of thyroid hormone the thyroid is remarkably resistant to infection and is rarely in- fected .

1. role of bacteria in autoimmune thyroid disease publications on this topic focusing on the five most cited bacterial organisms.such as in autoimmune thyroiditis or may be systemic such as sys- temic lupus erythematosus.

.9.4.6.3.9...0........7.3..0.6.0..

because of the high antimi- crobial properties of the ocular surface the bacterial abundance isinnately low and organisms found although normally classified as com- mensals may play a more important role than in other sample sites with less bacterial abundance.the skin is the largest sensory organ of the body and harbors around 113 different bacterial phylotypes and the predominant microbiota on the skin was shown to correlate with lipid content ph sweat and sebum secretion .

until now it is not clear whether bacterial infections can trigger autoimmune thyroid disease.

kohling.1521-6616c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.antibody and antigen detection68a possible link between microbiota and autoimmune thyroid68conclusion70funding70declaration of interest70references70introductionbacteria and bacterial antigens have long been considered as possi- ble culprits in inducing autoimmune disease.

review articlethe microbiota and autoimmunity their role in thyroid autoimmune diseaseshedda l. kohling  sue f. plummer  julian r. marchesi  kelly s. davidge  marian ludgate a university hopital essen institute of medical microbiology essen germanyb cultech ltd. baglan port talbot united kingdomc school of biosciences cardiff university cardiff united kingdomd kirkstall ltd. templeborough rotherham united kingdome division of infection  immunity school of medicine cardiff university cardiff united kingdomf centre for digestive and gut health imperial college london london w2 1ny united kingdoma r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 22 july 2016received in revised form 2 july 2017 accepted with revision 5 july 2017 available online 6 july 2017keywords bacteria graves' diseasehashimotos's thyroiditisa b s t r a c t since the 1970s the role of infectious diseases in the pathogenesis of graves' disease gd has been an object of intensive research.

hashimoto's thyroiditis also known as autoimmune or chronic lym- phocytic thyroiditis is characterized by infiltration of the thyroid gland by inflammatory cells subsequent atrophy of the thyroid tissue and production of antithyroid antibodies especially against thyroperoxidase anti-tpo antithyroglobulin anti-tg and tsh-stimulation blocking antibody tsbab although these are rare.

