however many other drugs also had a statis- tically significant effect on the gut microbiota composition.consequences of gut microbiota changes caused by medicationwhat is becoming increasingly clear is that antibiotics ppis and metformin affect the gut microbiota and that other commonly used medication like statins and ssris and are associated with distinct gut microbiota signatures.as a consequence these types of medi- cation could have an effect on the risk of developing enteric infections or gut inflammation and they may also have an effect on host metabolism.susceptibility to enteric infectionsa well-known example of reduced enteric infection resis- tance through alteration of the gut microbiota caused by medication is the increased risk of clostridium difficileinfections after repeated treatment with antibiotics.

subsequent gut microbiota studies attributed the increased risk to unfavorable gut microbiota alterations caused by ppi use.human ani- mal and in vitro studies show an overlap between the spe- cific gut microbiota alterations associated with ppi use as found in imhann et al.

the overrepresentation of oral microbiota in the gut microbiota of ppi users supports this hypothesis.the effects of antibiotics and ppis on the gut microbiota are currently the clearest exam- ples of how medication can change susceptibility to enteric infections and have an effect on human health.

one small scale intervention study investigating the role of ppi on the gut microbiota has already been performed.animal studiesin addition to intervention studies in humans mouse experiments are required in which gut microbiota changes can be studied in isolation and the effects in tissues and blood markers observed.the effects on enteric-infection-resistance to clostridium difficile through gut microbiota alterations have already been tested using a mouse model in which mice were exposed to pathogens after antibiotic treatment.

since the gut microbiota can depending on composition increase or decrease the risk of enteric infections we investigated the effect of ppi use on the gut microbiota.

favorable microbiota can ameliorate gut inflammation through the induction of regulatory t- cells tregs interleukin 10 il-10 and the production of the short-chain fatty acid butyrate.in contrast unfavorable microbiota can produce toxins that pro- mote inflammation of the gut epithelium.

afigure 2. gut microbiota changes associated with ppi use that increase the risk of clostridium difficile infection.profoundly disturbed balance between favorable and unfavorable gut microbiota resulting in gut inflamma- tion is seen in inflammatory bowel disease ibd.

inter- vention studies in humans in which the pre-medica- tion gut microbiota can be compared with the post- medication gut microbiota are relatively easy to imple- ment.

4 351-358addendumthe influence of proton pump inhibitors and other commonly used medication on the gut microbiotafloris imhann arnau vich vila marc jan bonder ailine g. lopez manosalva debby p. y. koonenjingyuan fu cisca wijmenga alexandra zhernakova and rinse k. weersmaauniversity of groningen and university medical center groningen department of gastroenterology and hepatology groningen the netherlands buniversity of groningen and university medical center groningen department of genetics groningen the netherlands cuniversity of groningen and university medical center groningen groningen department of pediatrics groningen the netherlandsarticle historyreceived 12 october 2016 revised 10 january 2017 accepted 13 january 2017keywordsgut microbiota medication proton pump inhibitorsproton pump inhibitors affect the gut microbiotaproton pump inhibitors ppis used to treat gastro- esophageal reflux and to prevent gastric ulcers are among the most commonly used drugs in the world.in the netherlands one ppi alone omeprazole was the fourth most prescribed drug in 2015. in observational studies the use of ppis has been associated with an increased risk of enteric infections caused by clostridium difficile sal- monella spp.

using the 16s rrna sequences of stool samples from 1815 individuals spanning 3 independent cohorts we observed profound changes in the gut microbiota of ppi users.

in ppi users the relative abundance of 20 of the bacterial taxa whereof 18 bacterial families was statisti- cally significantly different either increased or decreased compared with abundances in samples from non-users.concurrently with our research other research groups were also investigating the influence of ppis on the gut microbiota.

the decrease of order clostridiales and increases of class gammaproteobacteria and order acti- nomycetales a consistent profile of alterations in gut microbiota associated with ppi use emerges.other commonly used drugs and the gut microbiotato ensure that our observed alterations in gut micro- biota associated with ppi use were not based the con- founding effects of concomitant use of other drugscontact prof. rinse k. weersmadepartment of gastroenterology and hepatology university of groningen university medical center groningen po box 30.001 9700rb groningen the netherlands.addendum to imhann f bonder mj vich vila a fu j mujagic z vork l tigchelaar ef jankipersadsing sa cenit mc harmsen hj dijkstra g franke l xavier rj jonkers d wijmenga c weersma rk zhernakova a. proton pump inhibitors affect the gut microbiome.

gut 2016.c 2017 taylor  francistable 1. ppi use associated with gut microbiota alterations in 3 studies.bacterial familyimhann et al.

bacterial families associated with ppi use in 3 gut microbiota studies.

consistent changes in 2 or all studies are marked in bold nr d not reported.which could also potentially influence the gut micro- biota we grouped the most commonly used drugs and analyzed possible associations with the gut microbiota.

