all 20 mice 10 male and 10 female were housed in the university of georgia animal facility for 1 week before the experiments.then the mice were randomly assigned to the control and ace-k groups five male and five female mice in each group.

there was no any statistical differ- ence in the initial body weight between the control and ace-k group for either male or female mice males 26.8-1.1 g and 26.4-1.1 g for the control and ace-k group females 22.8-1.6 g and 22.4-1.1 g for the control and ace-k group.

in this study we found that ca and dca increased and decreased respectively after ace-k treatment  highlighting the effects of ace-k on the homeostasis and biotransformation of bile acids important signaling molecules in inflammation and glucose metabolism -.collectively our data evidence that ace-k consumption can lead to adverse effects in the gut microbiome of mice.

a the body weight gain of ace-k-treated male mice was significantly higher than that of the control male mice while the body weight gain of female mice was not significantly different from that of the controls.

specifically ace-k increased the body weight gain in male but not female mice and induced different gut bacterial composition changes in male and female mice.

for female mie the body weight gain was not significantly different between the control and treated animals as shown in .ace-k altered the gut microbiome components in a gender-specific mannergiven that ace-k induced gender-dependent body weight gain in animals and considering the crucial role of gut bacteria in host energy homeostasis we further explored whether ace-k has different effects on the gut microbiota of male and female mice.

these results indicated that ace-k perturbed the gut microbiome composition in a gen- der-dependent manner.effects of four weeks of ace-k consumption on the body weight gain and gut microbiome composition of cd-1 mice.

the functional genes involved in energy metabolism were activated in male mice but inhibited in female mice.

clearly the treated male mice exhibited much higher body weight gain than the control male mice 10.28 g versus 5.44 g p0.01.

in ace-k-treated female mice many of the genes involved in key energy metabolism pathways were decreased  which is consistent with the decrease in multiple genera in the female mice.

however the changes in specific metabolites were largely different in male and female mice with the majority of metabolites being down-regulated and up-regu- lated in female and male mice respectively which was consistent with the differential changes in the gut bacterial community composition and functional genes in the female and male ani- mals.

these results are consistent with a signifi- cantly higher body weight gain in ace-k-treated males compared to the controls 10.28 g vs 5.44 g p0.01.interestingly the response of the gut microbiota in female mice was remarkably different or even opposite that in male mice.

pathways related to energy metabolism were down-regulated in ace-k-treated female mice which could prevent the occurrence of the obese phenotype in female mice.

we found that ace-k consumption perturbed the gut microbiome of cd-1 mice after a 4-week treatment.

in particular ace-k increased body weight gain of male but not female mice.

