the neonatal brain is more vulnerable to cir- culating molecules which may be directly or indirectly attributed to the metabolic activity of the gut microbiota macfabe 2012 and it is during the postnatal period of gut microbiota development that the microbiota exerts significant influence over the developing brain clarke et al.

2016. potential strate- gies include restoring intestinal permeability via the gut microbiota promoting gut microbiota diversity duringold age to improve health outcomes and modulating microbiota through diet kelly et al.

2004.the role of microbiota in stress is being increas- ingly recognized because key findings have shown that stress influences the composition of the gut microbiota and that bidirectional communication between micro- biota and the cns influences stress reactivity foster and mcvey neufeld 2013. it has emerged that the gut microbiota mediates the interaction between stress the hpa axis and the immune system de palma et al.

2006.the gut microbiome and behaviorseveral models of microbiota manipulation in- cluding gf mice antibiotic administration fmt probiotics and prebiotics have demonstrated the im- portant role that the gut microbiota plays in behavior.

as discussed previously the gut microbiota composition also changes with aging and the eldermet elder metagenome ucc.ie consortium found that this age-related change in gut microbiota composition was related to a number of health measures such as depression cognition and inflammatory markers claesson et al.

humanized gnotobiotic mice which are gf mice that have been inoculated with a human gut microbiota sample are widely employed be- cause they recapitulate a significant portion of the hu- man gut microbiota composition nguyen et al.

it is clear that the gut microbiota isinvolved in regulating the stress response therefore modulation of the gut microbiota either through diet or through probiotic administration is a potential strategy to manage stress in farm and domestic ani- mals.

2012. therefore modulating the microbiota with dietary interventions may be a potential strategy for pro- moting healthier aging o'toole and jeffery 2015.what is the microbiome- gut-brain axiscomponents and signaling along the microbiome- gut-brain axisthere is extensive communication between the brain and the microbiota in the gut via the brain-gut-mi- crobiome axis.

2015.hologenome theory takes into account the sum of the genetic information of the host and its microbiota bor- denstein and theis 2015. this theory indicates that the genetic abundance of diverse microbial symbionts can contribute to adaptation and evolution of higher organ- isms zilber-rosenberg and rosenberg 2008. we co- exist with our gut microbiota as mutualists we provide an environment and a constant source of nutrition for the microbiome while the microbial genes supplement avail- able genetic information such as metabolic pathways and these host-microbe interactions modulate mammalian de- velopment and brain evolution stilling et al.

2010 examined the ef- fect of diet on gut microbiota by comparing the fecal microbiota of european children consuming a western diet with children in burkina faso who consume a plant- rich diet high in fiber.

2015.overlapping development of gut microbiota and the braindevelopment of the nervous system the microbiota and the elements of the microbiota-gut-brain axis occurs in parallel during interacting time windows and prena- tal early postnatal and adolescence phases are particu- larly important for brain development.

a transient disruption to the microbiota occurred during a critical neurodevelopmental window that had a lasting effect because although there were no differ- ences in the gut microbiota during adulthood there were still differences in visceral hypersensitivity.

2015. several routes of communication between the gut and the brain have been identified including activating afferent sen- sory fibers of the vagus nerve neuroimmune pathways neuroendocrine pathways microbial metabolites such as short-chain fatty acids scfa and microbially de- rived neurotransmitters cryan and dinan 2012.the gut microbiota secretes neurotransmitters and neuromodulators such as g-aminobutyric acid gaba serotonin catecholamines and acetylcholine which impact host psychiatric health cryan and o'mahony 2011 lyte 2011. these neurotransmitters may induce epithelial cells to release molecules that modulate neu- ral signaling within the ens and consequently im- pact brain function and behavior of the host wall et al.2014.

2012.altered gut microbiome and neuropsychiatric and neurological disorderspreclinical studies provide promising evidence indicating an important role for the gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of depression kelly et al.

2015.therapeutic targeting of the gut microbiomeopportunitiesdietary supplementation with probiotics and prebi- otics is the most widely used dietary adjunct to modu- late the gut microbiota sandhu et al.

