the difference of the two hyl variants can also be used for diagnostic purposes to easily distinguish type ia type ibii and type iii strains by one pcr.supplementary materials the following are available online at  figure s1 sequence alignment of hyl variants of the p. acnes phylotypes ia ib ii figure s2 extended genome context comparison of the region encoding hyl in p. acnes figure s3 pcr assay to differentiate the two hyl versions of p. acnes figure s4 transcriptional start sites tss putative -10 and -35 promoter regions and 5t-utr of the hyl gene in p. acnes figure s5 growth curves for investigated p. acnes strains figure s6 turbidimetric assay to determine ha-degrading activity in p. acnes figure s7 chondroitin sulfate cs degradation by hyl activity of p. acnes strains after 1 and 4 days of incubation figure s8 hyaluronic acid fragments produced by the activity of hyls of p. acnes table s1 information about the strains used in this study table s2 primers used in this study table s3 identified hyl in the culture supernatant of p. acnes strains.acknowledgments the authors wish to thank meike sorensen lise hald schultz and herdis berg johansen for excellent technical assistance.

colonies of the investigated strains were inoculated onto the plates and incubated for 24 h. both phylotype ia strains and phylotype ibii strains expressed hyl activity while hyl activity was absent from the hyl mutant strain and the phylotype iii strain figure a. interestingly differences in the size of the clear zones around the colonies of type ia and type ibii strains respectively were observed hyl-ibii-producing strains exhibited larger clear zones around colonies compared to hyl-ia-producing strains.

in contrast the type ia and ib strains exhibited significant ha degradation activity albeit and in contrast to the ha plate assay no differences between type ia and ib strains were observed.substrate range of hyaluronate lyases of p. acnesthe extracellular matrix of human skin is a complex network composed of a variety of gags including ha and chondroitin sulfates.

in analogy to the ha plate assay the clear zones were particularly more pronounced for type ibii strains compared to type ia strains after short-term 24 h incubation clear zones were first only visible around colonies of type ibii strains figure s7.

however no ha-degrading activity was detected in the plate assays for the hyl mutant and the type iii strains suggesting that the putative b-glucuronidase and b-n-acetylhexosaminidases of p. acnes are not able to efficiently degrade ha and chondroitin sulfates or are not functional in p. acnes.the second difference of hyl-ia and hyl-ibii activity concerned the produced ha fragments hyl-ibii can degrade ha into small homogenous fragments whereas the less active hyl-ia produces larger oligosaccharides of various sizes.

it appearedthat hyl-ibii in strain kpa171202 was stronger produced than hyl-ia in the strains 266 and 12.1.l1 although a clear quantitative comparison of hyl production levels between different strains was not possible due to a lack of a stably secreted reference protein.figure 3. transcriptional activity of hyl in p. acnes strains 12.1.l1 type ia and kpa171202 type ib.

figure s2 shows an extended comparison comprising more p. acnes genomes.transcriptional activity of hyl in type ia and ib strains and hyaluronate lyase production in culture supernatantsto obtain additional insight in the two hyl variants we determined the transcriptional activity of hyl in the strains kpa121702 type ib and 12.1.l1 type ia.

thereby two distinct variants of the enzyme could be differentiated one variant present in p. acnes type ia strains and the other one in type ib and type ii strains.

no ppa0380 homolog could be found in type iii strains.figure 1. phylogenetic tree of hyl homologs of p. acnes type ia type ib and type ii strains.

in this regard it should be mentioned that a previous study failed to detect ha-degrading activity in type ia strains in contrast to type ib and type ii strains as judged from a ha plate assay .

a more recent study showed a widespread ha-degrading ability of the vast majority of p. acnes strains tyner  patel detected the presence of hyl and hyl activity in 97 of the tested clinical isolates of p. acnes .regarding the substrate range of p. acnes hyls none of the investigated strains could degrade csb.

taken together these findings showed that hyl is transcribed in the tested type ia and ib strains albeit differences were identified.in order to confirm the production and secretion of hyl strains kpa171202 hyl mutant and the type ia strains 266 and 12.1.l1 were grown in broth until stationary growth phase.

facial skin and the skin of the upper body seems to be predominately colonized by type i strains whereas proportions of type ii and type iii strains increase on the skin of the lower torso .

acnes strains grown to the stationary growth phase in equal amounts to ha-containing agar plates figure b. this confirmed the presence of hyl activity in the culture supernatant and showed again that supernatants harvested from type ibii strains produced larger clear zones in comparison to those obtained from phylotype ia strains.

whereas type ia strains are primarily found on the skin surface and associated with acne vulgaris type ibii strains are more often associated with soft and deep tissue infections which would require elaborate tissue invasion strategies possibly accomplished by a highly active hyl-ibii.keywords propionibacterium acnes hyaluronate lyase hyaluronic acid glycosaminoglycan extracellular matrix skin microbiotaintroductionpropionibacterium acnes is a gram-positive anaerobic but aerotolerant bacterium present in sebaceous follicle-rich areas of human skin such as the face upper chest and back.

