faecalibacterium prausnitzii was significantly lower in patients with t2d p- value 14 0.038. bacteroides fragilis was under-represented in the microbiota of the group with diabetes but its difference between two groups was not significant p-value 14 0.38. no difference was observed for b. longum community between the both groups p-value 14 0.99. characterization of specific species of intestinal microbiota shows some compositional changes in patients with t2d.

inclusion criteria for t2d patients were duration of diagnosed type 2 diabetes less than 5 years and hemoglobin a1c hba1c  10.to ensure comparable data patients were interviewed for their history of gastrointestinal diseases and the use of probiotics or prebiotics.

quantitative pcr analysis revealed that the gut bacterial composition in patients with t2d was partially different from that in the healthy individuals.

accordingly this study was designed to investigate the relationship between these specific bacteria and t2d by comparing the changes in gut bacterial compositions in patients with type 2 diabetes and healthy individuals.

our study focused on the bacterial compositional changes in t2d adult patients and indicated that gut microbial composition was different between the patient subjects and healthy group by qpcr analysis.

more investigations are needed to clarify the correct process of the changes in intestinal bacteria associated with the progression of t2d as well as the changes in lifestyle and obtain a more detailed understanding of the role of gut bacterial composition in the disease state.conclusionreal-time pcr analysis illustrates that despite the non- significant difference in bacteroides fragilis and bifidobacterium longum fecal concentration of faecalibacterium prausnitzii was significantly lower in patients with type 2 diabetes than normal group.

long-term studies with emphasis on other bacterial groups are suggested to clarify the association of t2d with gut microbiota.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductiontype 2 diabetes t2d is a metabolic disorder which is complex and extensive .

ethe association of type ii diabetes with gut microbiota compositionfatemeh navab-moghadam  mansour sedighi  mohammad e. khamseh fariba alaei-shahmiri  malihe talebi  shabnam razavi    nour amirmozafari   a department of microbiology school of medicine iran university of medical sciences tehran iranb endocrine research center institute of endocrinology and metabolism iran university of medical sciences tehran iranc research center for prevention of cardiovascular disease institute of endocrinology and metabolism iran university of medical sciences tehran irand microbial biotechnology research center iran university of medical sciences tehran irana r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 5 july 2017 received in revised form 19 july 2017accepted 20 july 2017available online 21 july 2017keywordsgut microbiota type 2 diabetes real-time pcr bacteroides fragilisbifidobacterium longum faecalibacterium prausnitziia b s t r a c t it is known that type 2 diabetes t2d in humans could be linked to the composition of gut microbiota.

the aim of this study was to evaluate three faecal bacterial species including bacteroides fragilis bifi- dobacterium longum and faecalibacterium prausnitzii in patients with t2d.

this case control study included 18 patients with t2d and 18 matched persons without diabetes.

it has been indicated that gram-negative bacteria spe- cifically those belonging to the phylum bacteroidetes and proteobacteria possessed lipopolysaccharide lps endotoxin were relatively enriched in patients with t2d .

to our knowledge there has been no published literature so far to assess b. fragilis in t2d patients in comparison with healthy individuals.

2013 reported no significant difference when t2d patients and the control participants were compared for the total bacterial number however they found that the microbial composition in two groups was different significantly .

more investigations are neces- sary to elucidate the fluctuation of other bacterial groups in t2d patients.

these similarity and differences in gut microbial composition between healthy individuals and patients with type 2 diabetes as well as not-matched correlation of diabetes and bmi can be related to various factors such as geographical and climatic conditions diet lifestyle gastrointestinal disturbances medical history possible underlying diseases other metabolic disorders and genetic background.

