while studies in animals suggest that vagal innerva- tion modulates insulin secretion insulin action and hepatic glucose metabolism 21 it is uncertain if these effects make significant contributions to the regulation of glucose metabolism in humans 22. the use of chronic but revers- ible electrical vagal blockade in humans produced a signif- icant but temporary decrease in weight and caloric intake 23. no direct effects on glucose metabolism have been demonstrated with electrical vagal blockade 22 although in 26 subjects with type 2 diabetes electrical vagal block- ade achieved sustained weight loss over a 1-year periodtogether with improved hba1c fasting glucose and blood pressure 24. these effects are likely to have resulted from the effect of vagal blockade on weight loss.gastric emptying and interaction with glycemiathe rate of gastric emptying is subject to modulation by several circulating factors--blood glucose concentrations alter gastric emptying hyperglycemia delays gastric empty- ing while hypoglycemia accelerates gastric emptying.

multiple short-term studies suggest that increased dietary consumption of fiber has short- term effects that are positive in terms of postprandial glycemia and appetite 5. however not all interventional studies utilizing dietary fiber are associated with beneficial effects on weight and their efficacy over the long term remains untested.effects of fiber have been reviewed in detail elsewhere 6. in summary insoluble fibers demonstrate the strongest associations with decreased risk of diabetes whereas soluble dietary fiber exerts physiological effects on the stomach and small intestine that modulate postprandial glycemic responses through delayed gastric emptying modification of gastrointes- tinal myoelectrical activity and delaying small bowel transit reduced glucose diffusion through the unstirred water layer and reduced accessibility of a-amylase to its substrates due to increased viscosity of gut contents 6. table 1 shows a summary of dietary fiber effects on gastric emptying sati- ety glucose homeostasis intestinal hormones and body weight regulation 6.the effect of volume of ingesta on postprandial satietyseems to be greater than that of calories ingested and indeed a gastric balloon inflated to 400-800 ml rapidly induces satiety without altering gastric emptying.

the volume of the meal its energy density kcalml and the proportions of fat carbohydrate and protein in the meal have minor effects on the rate of gastric emptying of energy 10. regulation is achieved through the osmotic effect including calorie content and calcium binding of the products of digestion in the duodenum.increased caloric content increasing sucrose concentra- tions delayed emptying irrespective of the volume of test meal ingested 9. subsequently the slowing of gastric emp- tying by disaccharides was shown to be consistent with the stimulation of duodenal osmoreceptors after hydrolysis to monosaccharides 11. a later series of studies suggested similar slowing of gastric emptying by isocaloric amounts of fat protein and carbohydrate.

the corollary of this is that solid emptying is preceded by a lag phase where no emptying occurs followed by linear postlag emptying.

postprandial gastric volume seems to predict satiation across a wide range of bmi 8.gastric emptying and nutrient compositionthe nutrient content of the suspension traversing the pylorus influences the rate of emptying to the extent that caloric delivery is nearly constant and 200 kcalh are de- livered to the duodenum.

the rate of liquid emptying differs significantly from that of solids and is much more rapid--the emptying half-time time taken to empty 50 being of the order of 20 min as opposed to 120 min 14 fig.

the final observation to make is that liquid emptying is not completely passive and the emptying rate is decreased by increasing caloric content suggesting an active ability to regulate caloric delivery that is not entirely dependent on particle size and the ability to pass through the pylorus 10.figure 1--glp-1 increases gastric fasting and postprandial volume.

sol- ids typically empty over a period of 3-4 h 14. however the volume consistency and fat content will affect empty- ing rate so that large fatty meals may empty over periods longer than 4 h. gastric emptying rather than gastric ac- commodation appears to be the major gastric function de- termining postprandial satiation and satiety.bilateral truncal vagotomy previously used to treat peptic ulcer results in delayed gastric emptying early satiety and weight loss 18. this is believed to be at least in part due to a decrease in gastric accommodation although symptoms decrease in severity over time.

indeed fasting after sg is not asso- ciated with a rise in the low ghrelin concentrations observed in these patients in contrast to what occurs after roux-en-y gastric bypass rygb 31. it is unclear whether restoration of fasting presurgical acyl-ghrelin concentrations will alter gi function and restore appetite after sg.beyond its direct central effects on appetite regulation ghrelin can also accelerate gastric emptying of liquids and solids 32. however in a dose used to stimulate physiolog- ical growth hormone secretion synthetic human ghrelin does not seem to alter gastric motor functions emptying or postprandial accommodation suggesting that at physi- ological concentrations it does not contribute to gastric function in humans 33.amylinamylin is a peptide hormone cosecreted with insulin by the b-cell.

while gastric emptying is probably the most significant compo- nent other factors need to be considered.

the systemic rate of appearance of ingested nutrients is largely determined by the rate of delivery of nutrients to the proximal small intestine through the rate of gastric emptying.

while gastric emptying is arguably the most sig- nificant of the myriad processes occurring within the gas- trointestinal tract many other factors are either overlooked or misunderstood.

9 who first suggested that the pressure differ- ences between the stomach and the small intestine as well as the volume of ingested meal govern the emptying half- time.

hunt 10 ultimately sug- gested that the osmotic properties of the stomach contents reaching the duodenum as well as the saponification of partially hydrolyzed triglycerides determine the rate of gas- tric emptying.

it is dependent on the caloric value of the liquid meal ingested has also been observed 12. the presence of fat such as oleate in the duodenum stimulates cholecysto- kinin cck secretion which in turn inhibits antral motility stimulates pyloric tone and therefore delays gastric empty- ing 13. however there is some adaptation to diet so that a high-fat diet may not always delay gastric emptying in response to a test meal.in addition to the trituration of solid food the stomach facilitates nutritional absorption through denaturation by its acidic milieu as well as through secretion of gastric lipase and pepsins.

