this study was part of another clinical trial approved by the clinical research review committee at texas am university and the study protocol has been reviewed and approved by the institutional an- imal care and use committee iacuc at texas am university aup 2011-84  iacuc 2014-0094 ca.inclusion criteria for dogs with epi were a serum ctli concen- tration 2.5 mgl which is considered to be diagnostic for epi for this species age 1 year clinical signs of epi polyphagia weight loss steatorrhea andor loose voluminous andor malodorous stools and the absence of other concurrent diseases.

epi-e group includes fecal samples from dogs with epi who did not receive enzyme supplementation and epi th e includes fecal samples from dogs with epi who received enzyme supplementation.table 2summary of alpha diversity measures.means not sharing a common superscript differ p  0.05 dunn's multiple comparisons test.fig.

our results also show a non-significant trend for an increasing gradient in bacterial richness and diversity healthy controls  epi e  epi - e. there was also a significant difference in microbial community composition between the healthy and diseased cohorts of dogs p  0.001. the healthy dogs clustered together and were spatially separated from the dogs with epi.

three day pooled fecal samples were collected from healthy dogs n 14 18 untreated n 14 7 dogs with epi and dogs with epi treated with enzyme replacement therapy n 14 19. extracted dna from fecal samples was used for illumina sequencing of the bacterial 16s rrna gene and analyzed using quantitative insights into mi- crobial ecology qiime and picrust was used to predict the functional gene content of the microbiome.

in contrast healthy dogs had a significant increase in genes related to phenylalanine tyrosine and tryptophan biosynthesis transcription machinery and sporulation.in conclusion this study shows that the fecal microbiome of dogs with epi both treated and un- treated is different to that of healthy dogs.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionexocrine pancreatic insufficiency epi in dogs is characterized by the inadequate production of digestive enzymes by pancreatic acinar cells which leads to maldigestion and malabsorption of nutrients.

clinical signs of dogs with epi include weight loss despite polyphagia steatorrhea loose and voluminous andor malodorous stools e. a clinical suspicion is confirmed by the measurement of canine serum trypsin like immunoreactivity ctli and a concentration of less than or equal to 2.5 mgl is diagnostic for epi .

in this study we aimed to describe the fecal microbiome and predict the functional potential of the microbiota in dogs with epi when compared to healthy dogs and to investigate if healthy german shepherd dogs had a microbiome different from healthy dogs of other breeds.methodsstudy populationfecal samples were collected from client owned dogs with spontaneously occurring epi and staff owned healthy dogs.

post hoc dunn's multiple comparison test was used to determine the bacterial taxa that were different between the groups.resultsanimal populationthe characteristics of the healthy control dogs n 18 and dogs with epi n 27 epi-e n 7 and epi e n 19 are summarized in .sequence analysisthe sequence analysis yielded 2263390 quality sequences for all the analyzed samples n 44 mean - sd 51074 - 19973 after removing chimeras and singletons.

the samples were rarefied to an equal sequencing depth of 2180 reads per sample.effect of epi on gut bacterial diversityalpha diversityalpha diversity as described by species richness chao 1 and shannon diversity index was significantly decreased in dogs with epi .

healthy dogs clustered significantly different from epi th e dogs pweighted punweighted 0.001 and epi-e dogs pweighted punweighted 0.001. also when epi e dogs were compared to epi-e dogs there was a significant clustering of bacterial communities based on un-weighted unifrac distances anosimunweighted p 0.026 which however was not significant when using the weighted unifrac distance metric anosimweighted p 0.103.there were no significant differences in the fecal microbiome of dogs due to age gender and breed based on pcoa analysis figure s1 and anosim table s1.

2. principal coordinates analysis pcoa of microbial communities from the fecal samples of healthy dogs dogs with epi with epi-e and without enzyme supple- mentation epi th e. the figure shows a 3d pcoa plot based on a weighted unifrac distances b unweighted unifrac distances of 16s rrna genes.

in contrast the bacterial families lactobacillaceae and streptococcaceae are significantly elevated in dogs with epi when compared to healthy samples table s2.based on univariate statistics  the genera faecali- bacterium blautia coprococcus ruminococcus eubacterium bacteroides slackia and fusobacterium were significantly decreased in dogs with epi.

mean- while pathways related to secretion systems abc transporters phosphotransferase pts metabolism of xenobiotics glycans and purines were over-represented in epi-e. there were no differen- tially abundant genes detected in the epi e groups when compared to healthy and epi - e dogs.

univariate analysis also showed that metabolism of amino acids and energy biosynthesis of vitamins and co-factors to be significantly decreased in epi - e dogs table s3.discussionthere is a lack of knowledge regarding the changes in diversity and composition of the gut microbiome in dogs with epi.

we evaluated the changes in the fecal microbiome of dogs with epi when compared to healthy dogs and identified differences in the fecal microbiota between healthy dogs and the dogs with epi enzyme supplemented and not enzyme supplemented.

