culture collection network world federation for culture collections scientific collections internationalglobal genome biodiversity networkbiotechnology industry organization bio guidelines for bio members engaging in bioprospecting bio model mtaconsortium of european taxonomic facilitiescetaf code of conduct and best practice for access and benefit sharingabs-management tool best practice standardand handbook for implementing genetic resource access and benefit-sharing activitiesswiss academy of sciences access and benefitsharing good practice for academic research on genetic resources botanic gardens conservation international bgci cbd manual for botanic gardensthe mediterranean science commission ciesm charter on absthe abs capacity development initiative the abs agreement key elements and commentaryjapan bioindustry association and meti the japanese guidelines on access to and benefit sharing of genetic resourcesgerman science association dfg guideline forcbd relevant research projectsmicro b3 abs model agreementinternational union for conservation of nature iucn an explanatory guide to the nagoya protocol on access and benefit-sharingmicrobial resource research infrastructure mirribest practice manual on access and benefit sharingaorganization andor documents.the procedural requirements for the registration of collections of genetic resources article 5 of the eu abs regulation are set out in the implementing regulation.while not specifically linked to the registered collection approach leaders in the eu culture collection community are developing a consortium of microbial collections in the eu.

brazil implemented access and benefit-sharing legislation for genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge in 2001 through the provisional act 2186-162001. after almost 15 years of experience with this legal framework law 13.123 which provides for access to genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge and on benefit sharing for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity came into force on 17 november 2015. importantly brazil has taken the position that access to all genetic resources from brazil begins not when they were collected exported and deposited in collections but when the research and development activities access take place.

minireviewthe u.s. culture collection network responding to the requirements of the nagoya protocol on access and benefit sharinga katharine b. barkerb hazel a. bartonc kyria boundy-millsd daniel r. browne jonathan a. coddingtonf kevin cookg philippe desmethh david geiser i jessie a. glaeserj stephanie greenek seogchan kanglmichael w. lomasm ulrich melchern scott e. millero david r. nobles jr.p kristina j. owensq jerome h. reichmanr manuela da silvas john wertzt cale whitworthu david smithvfungal genetic stock center department of plant pathology kansas state university manhattan kansas usaa national museum of natural history smithsonian institution washington dc usab department of biology university of akron akron ohio usac phaff yeast culture collection food science university of california davis davis california usad infectious diseases and pathology college of veterinary medicine university of florida gainesville florida usae global genome initiative national museum of natural history smithsonian institution washington dc usaf bloomington drosophila stock center department of biology indiana university bloomington indiana usag belgian science policy office brussels belgiumh the fusarium research center penn state university state college pennsylvania usai u.s. forest service northern research station center for forest mycology research madison wisconsin usaj usda national laboratory for genetic resources preservation fort collins colorado usak penn state university state college pennsylvania usal national center for marine algae and microbiota east boothbay harbor maine usam oklahoma state university stillwater oklahoma usan smithsonian institution washington dc usao utex culture collection of algae austin texas usap eversole associates bethesda maryland usaq duke university school of law durham north carolina usar fiocruz - fundacao oswaldo cruz rio de janeiro rj brazils e. coli stock center yale university new haven connecticut usat bloomington drosophila stock center department of biology indiana university bloomington indiana usau cabi surrey united kingdomvabstract the u.s. culture collection network held a meeting to share informa- tion about how culture collections are responding to the requirements of the re- cently enacted nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization to the convention on bio- logical diversity cbd.

many of these approaches depend on access to validated microorganisms from public culture collections   many of which began as personal research collections or as the result of systematic collecting mutagenesis manipulation or taxonomic descrip- tion.

as a nongovernmental observer at the meeting of the parties to the nagoya protocol scientific collections international provided a perspective on managing access to genetic information based on living and once-living collections.

curators and customers of u.s. biological collections are encouraged to refer to the access and benefit-sharing clearing-house website for updated information on emerging legisla- tion and regulations that apply to the use of living biological diversity.supplemental materialsupplemental material for this article may be found at .text s1 docx file 0.1 mb.acknowledgmentthe usccn is supported by grant dbi-1534564 from the u.s. national science foundation.referencessmith d fritze d thompson f stackebrandt e. 2013. public service collections and biological resource centers of microorganisms p 267-304. in rosenberg e delong ef stackebrandt e lory s thompson f ed the prokaryotes prokaryotic biology and symbiotic associations 4th ed.

the american phytopathological society has been a leader in issues related to living microbe collections  and also provides administrative support to the usccn.the world federation for culture collections wfcc has served as a venue for interaction among culture collections for nearly 70 years.

historical biodiversity collections and research resource collections often have very simple accession and transfer re- quirements while formal government collections often have more-formal mta agree- ments .

key topics included what constitutes access and how the cbd access and benefit- sharing clearing-house can help guide researchers through the process of obtaining prior informed consent on mutually agreed terms.

in light of these challenges parties to the cbd agreed to negotiate an international regime of access and benefit sharing which culminated in the adoption of the nagoya protocol at the 10th meeting of the conference of parties to the cbd cop in nagoya japan in 2010 .in october 2014 the nagoya protocol on access and benefit sharing was ratified by the required number of countries and entered into force .

the objective of the nagoya protocol is to assure that access to genetic resources is associated with conservation of biodiversity and fair and equitable benefit sharing specifically benefits are to be shared with the country providing access to its genetic resources.

the united states does not formally restrict access to genetic resources although local entities such as the u.s. national park service state parks or conservation areas or landowners may restrict access or have specific requirements for the use of genetic resources collected from their sites.

moreover the lawdetermines that foreign institutions can access brazilian genetic resources only in partnership with a brazilian institution and that for all legal purposes the brazilian institution will be responsible for the activities of access to genetic resources.

managers of diverse living collections in the united states described their holdings and their efforts to provide access to genetic resources.

this meeting laid the foundation for cooperation in establishing a set of standard operating pro- cedures for u.s. and international culture collections in response to the nagoya pro- tocol.julyaugust 2017 volume 8 issue 4 e00982-17r 1keywords biodiversity biotechnology environmental microbiology genetic models genome sequencehe u.s. culture collection network usccn is a u.s. national science foundation- funded research coordination network that has provided opportunities for culture collection curators and other interested parties to interact since 2012. in recent years biological collection staff have expressed concern over how to act in accordance with the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization to the convention on biological diversity cbd which beginning in october 2014 placed new requirements on international collecting research and development based on biological organisms.

