at 12 weeks the mean bone speed of sound was higher in the sn-2 palmitate group 2896 - 133 vs 2825 - 79 ms respectively and was comparable with that of infants from the breast-fed comparator group 2875 - 85 ms. thus in this study infants consuming formula with high sn-2 palmitate had changes in bone strength that were comparable to those of infants consuming breast milk and that were more favorable than the changes seen in infants consuming formula with lower sn-2 palmitate.

evaluated the effects of a formula containing high sn-2 palmitate 36 of palmitic acid at sn-2 position an identical formula supplemented with oligofructose at 2 concentrations 3 or 5 gl and a low-sn-2 palmitate formula 12 sn-2 palmitate on stool composition stool characteris- tics and fecal bifidobacteria in term filipino infants.

recent studies in infants confirm that formula with a high sn-2 palmitate content reduces stool fat palmitic acid fat soaps palmitate soaps and calcium compared with formula with a low sn-2 palmitate content.

it is concluded that infant formula high in sn-2 palmitate is superior to formula with low sn-2 palmitate but does not fully match human breast milk.

thus it has been considered that having most palmitic acid in the sn-2 position could play a role in promoting fat and calcium availability and preventing stool hardness and constipation in formula-fed infants .a synthetic tg with palmitic acid in the sn-2 position hasbeen used experimentally for a number of years to study the effect of positional distribution of palmitic acid.

both fat and calcium were better absorbed by preterm and healthy term infants given formula with a significant proportion of palmitic acid at the sn-2 position compared with formula with little sn-2 palmitic acid but the same total amount of palmitic acid .

furthermore term infants given formula high in sn-2 palmitate had better fat absorption higher bone mineral content softer stools and lower stool fatty acid calcium soap content than infants receiving formula with palmitic acid not in the sn-2 position .tg with palmitate at sn-1 and sn-3 positions2-monoacylglycerol  2 free palmitates-oho-o-c-ro-o-colipases-o-c-r o-oho-o-coabsorptioncac-o- ca -o-coopalmitate calcium soapreduced palmitate absorption and reduced calcium absorptionhigher fecal fat and calcium harder stools and constipationfig.

examined the effect of formula with high sn-2 palmitate 39 of palmitate compared with low sn- 2 palmitate 13 on gastrointestinal tolerance stool consis- tency and stool fatty acid soap palmitate soap and calcium concentrations in taiwanese term infants the study also included a group receiving high sn-2 palmitate and oligofructose and a breast-fed comparator group.

infants received formula with high 44 of palmitic acid in sn-2 position or low 14 sn-2 palmitate or were breast-fed.

diets were low 12 of palmitate in sn-2 position medium 40 or high 56 in sn-2 palmitate.

however this study suggests that there may be nutraceutical uses of a very high sn-2 palmitate preparation.conclusionsearlier literature reported that inclusion of a high proportion of palmitic acid at the sn-2 position of tgs in infant formula improved fat and calcium absorption and resulted in softer stools .

review articlethe influence of the position of palmitate in infant formula triacylglycerols on health outcomeselizabeth a.  philip c.  a human development and health academic unit faculty of medicine university of southampton southampton united kingdomb nihr southampton biomedical research centre university hospital nhs foundation trust and university of southampton southampton united kingdoma r t i c l e i n f oa b s t r a c t article historyreceived 2 december 2016revised 10 may 2017accepted 11 may 2017keywords infant formula breast milk palmitic acid calcium soap sn-2 palmitate b-palmitate fatty acidarticle outlinethe purpose of this review is to discuss recent studies reporting on the influence of the position of palmitic acid in triacylglycerols in infant formula and relevant animal studies.

earlier experiments in rodents show that a diet with a higher proportion of palmitate at the sn-2 position of triacylglycerols improves dietary fat and calcium absorption compared with a diet with a lower sn- 2 palmitate content.

in some studies findings with formula high in sn-2 palmitate match those seen in breast-fed infants.

however in many studies high sn-2 palmitate formula remains inferior to breast-feeding.

