therefore we enrolled such persons and performed a comprehensive assessment of the impact on intestinal homeostasis and inflammation by the tlr9 agonist and immune surveillance reactivator mgn1703 lefitolimod.mgn1703 is synthetic tlr9 agonist of the double-stem loop immunomodulators or dslim family where multiple cg-motifs are embedded into a stable covalently-closed doublestem-loop dna molecule harboring only natural phosphodiester bonds between nucleotides 19-21. mgn1703's pre-clinically-determined efficacy parameters are maintained in clinical studies without dose-limiting toxicities 19-21 and this drug is currently in phase iii testing for treating metastatic colorectal cancer 21. the clinical proof-of-concept for mgn1703 wasachieved in a clinical phase ii study evaluating switch-maintenance treatment following standard chemotherapy of patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma 21 22.currently there is a renewed interest in developing effective and accessible therapies that can lead to eradication of hiv infection or that facilitate sustained viral remission in the absence of art 23. the main barrier to hiv eradication is the ability of the virus to establish latent infection in long-lived cd4 t cells that persist in the body despite art 24. these latently infected cells are the likely source of plasma viral rebound after interruption of art and there is compelling evidence that the intestines are a major reservoir for hiv persistence 25 26. to eradicate persistent hiv robust immune surveillance is required 27. we previously showed ex vivo and in vivo that the cells of hiv-positive individuals responded appropriately to tlr9 agonist stimulation 18 28 29. thus tlr9 agonist-mediated enhancement of the activation status and killing capacity of cd8 t and nk cells may augment the reduction or elimination of persistent viruses.in our preclinical evaluation of mgn1703 ex vivo using peripheral blood mononuclear cells isolated from hiv infected individuals we found that mgn1703 incubation results in nk cell activation and increased nk cell inhibition of hiv spreading in a culture of autologous cd4 t cells 18. as we examined the systemic effects evaluating mgn1703 effects in our clinical trial we found that treatment in hiv infected individuals has a dual potential in hivkrarup et al.page 4eradication efforts as mgn1703 increased hiv-1 transcription and enhanced cytotoxic nk cell activation in vivo 30. here we report a sub-study of this trial where we define mgn1703-treatment outcomes related to i tlr9 agonist-induced intestinal immune activity ii maintenance of intestinal homeostasis during tlr9 agonist treatment iii stability of the gut microbiota composition during tlr9 agonist treatment and iv tlr9 agonist-associated changes in hiv persistence in the intestine.resultsmgn1703 induced a potent type i interferon response in the intestinesthe clinical trial design is depicted in figure 1a.

we used quantitative ihc on intestinal biopsy tissues to detect the canonical type i interferon-induced proteins mx1 and isg15 31. we observed an increase in the numbers of mx1 positive cell profiles from baseline to the fourth week of treatment figure 1b in both the intestinal lamina propria p0.001 figure 1c and epithelium p0.003 figure 1d.the number of isg15 positive cell profiles in lamina propria also increased during mgn1703 treatment p0.014 figure 1e while no significant changes in the number of isg15-producing cell profiles in the epithelial region were observed figure 1f.

together these data indicate that mgn1703 treatment did not induce a type ii interferon response or inflammation in the intestines.mgn1703 treatment was associated with subtle changes in the intestinal microbiotaclinical interventions e.g.

together these observations lead us to conclude that mgn1703 did not induce an inflammatory response that could disrupt intestinal homeostasis.the stability of the microbiota is another major factor that contributes to the maintenance of intestinal homeostasis 55-57. while hiv-positive individuals have lower microbiota diversity 58 there were no major alterations in microbiota diversity associated with mgn1703 treatment.

consistent with no change in the levels of ifn-g mrna in the intestinal tissue mononuclear cells we did not detect significant changes in thekrarup et al.page 5numbers of cell profiles positive for the ifn-g-induced protein cxcl10 using ihc in either the intestinal lamina propria figure 3b or epithelium figure 3c.

nor was mgn1703 treatment associated with changes in intestinal t cell activation supplemental figure 2a t cell memory subset proportions supplemental figure 2b or expression of genes known to be involved in t cell activation supplemental figure 2c.

furthermore there was no change in the number of cell profiles in the intestinal lamina propria positive for myeloperoxidase mpo figure 3a and 3d an enzyme primarily produced by neutrophils 33 and used as an indicator of general inflammation in the intestinal mucosa 34. there was however an mgn1703-associated increase in the number of cell profiles in the lamina propria that expressed il-21 p0.019 figure 3e.

antibiotic treatment for ulcerative colitis may decrease intestinal inflammation but often at the expense of reduced microbial diversity in the intestines 35-37. here we performed a comprehensive analysis of the effects of mgn1703 on the gastrointestinal gi microbiota to determine whether mgn1703 therapy altered microbial diversity.

bray-curtis similarity values of paired samples baseline and treatment ranged from 72.6 to 91.3. across all pairs of samples no individual taxon at any taxonomic level was significantly different between baseline and treatment samples figure 4b table s2.

together these intestinal data highlight that higher tlr9 and ifnar1 gene expression prior to mgn1703 treatment is associated with a greater reduction in integrated hiv-1 dna levels following treatment.discussionhere we present the first examination of the in vivo effects of tlr9 agonist therapy in the human colonic sigmoid mucosa and feces.

the tlr9 agonist used herein is mgn1703 which is well-tolerated in patients and is currently in phase iii testing for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer id nct02077868 21. moreover this drug is being investigated clinically as treatment for small cell lung cancer and melanoma id number nct02200081 and nct02668770 respectively.

in summary protein and gene expression data confirm that mgn1703 treatment induced a robust type i interferon response in the sigmoid colon of these individuals that may contribute to clearance of the viral reservoir and durable virologic suppression following cessation of art.given the potency of the induced type i interferon response and the known inflammatory properties of tlr agonists it is conceivable that a type ii interferon response and inflammatory cascade could also be triggered by mgn1703 13 14. such an outcome could have a profound negative impact on intestinal homeostasis.

the type i interferon cascade can activate monocytes to secrete cxcl10 and induce nk cells to secrete type ii interferon ifn-g a potent inducer of cxcl10 production 49. while an increase in cxcl10 protein was observed in plasma during mgn1703 treatment 30 we did not find any cohort wide changes in the number of cxcl10 positive cell profiles in the sigmoid colon as would be expected during an inflammatory response 50 51. we also quantitated the number of infiltrating neutrophils at baseline versus on treatment.

given these microbiota results and our data revealing a lack of mgn1703-associated intestinal inflammation we conclude that mgn1703 dosing minimally impacts intestinal homeostasis and might lead to modest improvements in the overall gi microflora composition.in the context of a successful hiv eradication strategy mgn1703 will likely be combined with other interventions.

tlr and ifn-a receptor alpha chain substantially impacts the capacity of mgn1703 to reduce the intestinal hiv reservoir.potential limitations of our trial include the fact that the study was powered to detect differences in nk cell activation in peripheral blood 30 and that the study participants had the option of not consenting to the intestinal biopsy analyses for this sub-study but still take part in the clinical trial.

