since much of this research is found in the biological and neuroscientific literature it can be quite cumbersome for clinicians to digest and apply who would critically benefit from a concise discussion of the gut-brain connection.keywordsgastrointestinal microbiome mental health microbiota probiotics psychotherapyintroductionthe past decade has brought with it a substantial interest in exploring the connection between the microbial world of our gut and other important aspects of health including immune functioning chronic gastrointestinal gi dysfunc- tion metabolism and obesity bravo et al.

the world health organization who 2002 defines probiotics as live microorganisms which when administered in adequate amounts confer a health benefit on the host p. 8. dietary supplements aside probiotics are found in fermented foods such as yogurt kefir and cer- tain fermented vegetables to name a few chutkan 2015. some of these microorganisms many of which reside in our gut were initially obtained moments after birth collen 2015 se jin song et al.

2012 collen 2015 desalle and perkins 2015 lynch and pedersen 2016 mayer 2011. an expanding branch of this research-- of particular interest to mental health professionals--is pro- viding evidence that supports a strong link between the microbial state of our gut and our emotional functioning particularly in relation to stress anxiety and depression dinan and cryan 2012 foster and mcvey neufeld 2013 wang and kasper 2014. furthermore the microbial func- tions of our gut may also have significant influence on more profound disorders such as autism mayer et al.

thus compre- hensive understanding of the vitality of the human microbi- ome and its effect on measures of health would have proper nutrition at its core.implications for practice and researchthe emerging evidence indicating that the state our gut can have a significant impact on our behavior and emotion is something that should be received and evaluated with serious consideration for those providing mental health treatment.

it is estimated that the number of uniquely human cells in one person ranges from nearly 10 trillion to over 30 trillion cells bianconi et al.

2013 mayer 2016. in addition to our own cells an esti- mated additional 100 trillion foreign cells reside in and on us collen 2015 gill et al.

illnesses a course of antibiotics a change in location poor diet and various other factors can cause the natural state of our microbiome to become imbalanced collen 2015. although dysbiosis can be corrected over time research suggests that chronic states of dysbiosis may be a key factor leading to many serious ailments including obesity aller- gies psychiatric and behavioral problems chutkan 2015 collen 2015 logan et al.

biologically classified as the enteric nervous system ens consisting of nearly 100 million neuronal connections and the ability to function indepen- dently it is often referred to as the second brain carpenter 2012. adding the trillions of actions and interactions of the gut bacteria back into the communication network evidence is supporting the existence of a powerful and three-factor link known as the microbiota-gut-brain axis working in complex ways to affect a host of behaviors emotional experiences and disease cryan and o'mahony 2010 foster and mcvey neufeld 2013 mayer et al.

o'mahony et al.

in a groundbreaking study sudo et al.

bercik et al.

dinan et al.

neef and sanz 2013 as well as bravo et al.

undoubtedly this area could prove to be of great utility as it would affect biological processes but without the sometimes severe and chronic side- effects of traditional psychotropic medication.although not specifically employed as a psychobiotic messaoudi et al.

tillisch et al.

