If these human associated microbes were present we would not be able to substantiate based on this experimental design that it was specifically due to human interaction with the animals howeverthe absence of human associated microbes on the rays on exhibit would suggest that human contact is not transmitting human associated bacteria to the skin of the rays.

Received 23 November 2016  Revised 9 March 2017  Accepted 11 April 2017 DOI 10.1002zoo.21362BRIEF REPORT The skin microbiome of cow-nose rays Rhinoptera bonasus in an aquarium touch-tank exhibitPatrick J. Kearns1 Jennifer L. Bowen1 Michael F. Tlusty231 Department of Biology University of Massachusetts Boston Boston Massachusetts2 Anderson Cabot Center for Ocean Life New England Aquarium Boston Massachusetts3 School for the Environment University of Massachusetts Boston Boston MassachusettsCorrespondenceMichael F. Tlusty Anderson Cabot Center for Ocean Life New England Aquarium Boston 02110 MA.Email Funding informationUniversity of Massachusetts Boston Civic Engagement Scholars Initiative INTRODUCTION In an effort to deepen the connection between visitors and the animals on exhibit many zoos and aquariums have touch-tanks that promote science education Kisiel Rowe Vartabedian  Kopczak  Kopczak Kisiel  Rowe The few studies focusing on human interaction with touch- tanks examined animal well-being and growth or human stress and emotional response Casamitjana Clarke III et al.

We did not observe a signal of human derived bacteria in the microbiome of the rays on exhibit suggesting that human to ray transfer of microbes in this exhibit at the time of sampling appears to be small.

Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine 44 470-474.Edgar R. C. Haas B. J. Clemente J. C. Quince C.  Knight R. 2011.

Advances in Microbiology 4 1-9.Lowrey L. Woodhams D. C. Tacchi L.  Salinas I.

Applied and Environmental Microbiology 81 6915-6925.Morris A. L. Stremme D. W. Sheppard B. J. Walsh M. T. Farina L. L.  Francis-Floyd R. 2012.

Although a formal test for the presence of human-derived microbes on the ray skin would require a control group of rays that were not part of a touch-tank exhibit we can nonetheless screen the sequences derived here to determine whether there is the presence of a large degree of sequences typically found in human skin microbiomes.

In this study we characterized the skin micro- biome of cow-nose rays Rhinoptera bonasus hereafter rays in a touch- tank exhibitatthe New England Aquarium.

As a part of routine veterinary care rays were pulled from the water and the dorsal and ventral surfaces of five cow-nose rays were swabbed by aquarium veterinary staff to capture spatial variability of ray-associated bacteria.

The human microbiome at the interface of health and disease.

