anginosustable 3 concluded.referencestudy designcancerstudy populationspopulation data agesexethnic group or countrymain findingscapnocytophaga in thedental plaque of children with cancerlymphoma31 children with cancer and 30 healthy control children--francecapnocytophaga decreased inprevalence in the dental plaque of cancer patients during chemotherapy but became predominant in some cases detection of h. pylori in saliva--56 periodontally healthy subjects and 169 with chronic periodontitis----h. pylori was frequently detected in the oral microbiota of subjects with periodontitisperiodontal disease andbreast3273 subjects --30-40womenswedenchronic periodontal diseasebreast cancer1676 were clinically orally examined 1597 were not clinically examinedindicated by missing molars seemed to associate statistically with breast cancer a review paper a review paperinfections that have been linked to pancreatic cancerrelationship between the oral microbiome periodontitis and head and neck cancerpancreatic carcinogenesis review----chinah.

gingivalis serumantibody levels and orodigestive cancer morbidity110 cases------p. gingivalis t. forsythia t. denticola insaliva p. gingivalis may be related to preterm low birth weight105 patients------p. gingivalis is a biomarker for microbeassociated risk of death due to orodigestive cancer independently of periodontal disease p. gingivalis is a biomarker of orodigestive cancer oral candida in head and neck cancershead and neck cancerssaliva from 29 patients with head and neck cancers -- 34 noninstitutionalized 29 institutionalized----diversification and non-albicansspecies were observed in irradiated patients on head and neck treatment associated fungus positiveness human salivary mirnas oral cancer34 subjects--usa--overexpression of mirna-27bappeared to be a promising oscc salivary biomarkerhuman salivaryoral cancermeta-analysis20-50 --egality139 proteins which may serve asproteome biomarkersmenwomensecretory markers in oral malignanciesmarkers for malignanttransformation in oral mucosal lesionsimmunohistochemicalexpression of p63oscc100 subjects------mirna-84 tested might furnish arapid noninvasive aid for revealing malignant transformation in oral mucosal lesionsoral carcinogenesis 45 subjects--india--p63 expression in oral premalignantand malignant lesions as compared with the normal oral mucosanote qpcr quantitative polymerase chain reaction ldl low density lipoprotein dmft decayed missing or filled teeth oscc oral squamous cell carcinoma mirna micrornaadiacens granulicatella adiacens f. nucleatum fusobacterium nucleatum t. forsythia tannerella forsythia a. actinomycetemcomitans aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans p. gingivalis porphyromonas gingivalis t. denticola treponema denticola.le bars et al.487radiotherapyduring radiation therapy with only 20 gy approxi- mately 80 of salivary function is lost and above 30 gy permanent damages are sustained.

j. cancer 1403 626-635. doi .cho i. and blaser m.j. 2012. the human microbiome at the interface of health and disease.

support care cancer 205 1101-1107. doi .

support care cancer 2110 2663-2670. doi.

support care cancer 211 327-332. doi.

bmc cancer 16 42. doi.

other such illnesses include gastrointestinal cancer   breast cancer  cirrhosis  and diabetes   .

moreover in an independent validation using new saliva samples from 28 pancreatic cancer patients and 28 healthy controls only neisseria elongata and streptococcus mitis were useful in distinguishing patients with pancreatic cancer from healthy subjects with an area under the curve value of 0.90 95 ci 0.78-0.96 p  0.0001 a 96.4sensitivity and a 82.1 specificity .

among bacteria the rela- tionships between neisseria streptococcus and porphyromonas and lung cancer have been established along with clearly significant associations between salivary capnocytophaga and veillonella and lung cancer including squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma .host sidethe normal healthy state of the oral mucosal cavity is a state of balance between various organisms and the host.

in this regard periodontal treatments have been shown to induce systemic changes in several in-flammatory markers.published by nrc research presstable 4. potential biomarkers for early cancer detection.population datereferencesstudy designcancerstudy populationsage yearsethnicgroupsexmain findingsdefining normal humanmicroflora5 subjects------specificity of subjects and 9 sitesspecificity of periodontal and carie diseasesa review papersalivary genomicstranscriptomics proteomicsearly diagnosis ofcancerreview------the identification of biomarkerswith a proper and definite sensitivity and specificity toas many disorders and conditions as possible is also a prerequisiteperiodontitis andcerebrovascular diseasecerebrovasculardisease1137 dentate men inveterans affairs27-84 whiteusamenperiodontal probing depth was notassociated with a significantly increased rate of cerebrovascular disease in the combined or age- stratified analysesoral microbiota andcancer riskspancreatic cancers10 pancreatic cancers10 controls 28 healthy27 chronic pancreatitis salivary biomarkers qpcrusa--thirty-one bacteria species areincreased in saliva of patients with pancreatic cancer and25 bacteria decreased 2 bacterial g. adiacens and s. mitis showed significant variation p  0.05between chronic pancreatitis samples and controls this report provides proof of salivary microbiota as an informative source for discovering noninvasive biomarkers of systemic diseasecardiovascular riskmarker with periodontal disease measure of ldl40 patients with chronicperiodontitis----change in several inflammatorymarkers show that the periodontal treatment induces systemic changesa review paperstudy selection beforeand after radiotherapy and chemotherapyhead and neckcancers24 cohort 8 case control14 cross-sectional how many participants are included is unclear----patients who were post-radiotherapyhad the highest dmft compared with those who were post- chemotherapy and the healthy controlsperiodontal pathogenand cardiovascular disease composition of human gut microbiotamyocardialinfarction74 patients------periodontal pathogens p. gingivalisnucleatum t. forsythiaa.

4311 5721-5732. doi.

rep. 4 4202. doi.

505 827-836. doi.

hepatology 624 1260-1271. doi.

