these findings indicated that oral microbes could be potential biomarkers to distinguish between normal opmd and cancer subjects.keywords oral bacteria oral cancer malaysia 16s cloned library dggeintroductionoral cancer is a subset of head and neck cancer which is a type of cancer that occurs in the oral cavity affecting the lips tongue gingiva floor of mouth palate and other related structures international classification of diseases 10th edition codes c00-06.12globally it was estimated to be the 15th most common cancer with higher incidences among males in 2012.3 the estimated incidence and death from oral cancer saw a global increment of 14.2 and 13.9 respectively from 2008 to 2012.34 two-thirds of the cases occurred indeveloping countries and it is a major persistent health issue in parts of south central asia and south east asia where it was estimated to be one of five most common cancer between 2008 and 2012.3-5 in parts of these regions oral cancer was shown to comprise up to 40 of all cancer cases.6 in high risks countries such as papua new guinea pakistan maldives sri lanka and india it was one of the three most common cancers.3 in malaysia oral cancer is the third most common head and neck cancer affecting the elderly population and with equal risk for both genders.7 it is most common among indiansaddress for correspondence associate prof. dr. alan ong han kiat faculty of medicine and health sciences university tunku abdul rahman kajang malaysia.

for instance prevotella melaninogenica capnocytophaga gingivalis and streptococcus mitis appear to be significantly elevated in tumour tissues compared to normal counterparts from the same patient.23 besides that the salivary microbiome of oral cancer patients formed a distinct cluster separated from the normal group in a study using the denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge fingerprint technique.24 it has been suggested that this association between oral cancer and microbiome can be exploited for the development of diagnostic tools since bacteria is able to selectively bind to and colonize mucosal surfaces similar to a lock and key mechanism.2325some oral tumours are derived from oral potentially malignant disorders opmd which is a group of disorders described as genetically mutated oral epithelial cells with or without clinical and histomorphological abnormal appearances that are malignant transformable.26 opmd with subtle abnormalities present diagnostic challenges while the potential for multifocal cancer development not only complicates prognosis but also reduces treatment effectiveness.27-29 the associated oralmicrobiome was not addressed in previous studies which otherwise could uncover opmd associated oral microbes that have the potential to be biomarkers for the detection of genetically abnormal oral mucosa prior to the early oral cancer stage.1523-26therefore this study aims to identify oral cancer associated microbiota variations through the cross sectional comparison of the normal opmd and cancer 16s cloned libraries with the intention to identify opmd and cancer associated microbial profiles with potential medical value.

511-13 early detection and treatment could cure the cancer improve the survival rate and improve the quality of life due to less debilitating treatments.1415tobacco alcohol and betel quid are known oral cancer risk factors emerging aetiological factors include bacterial viral or fungal infections.16-18 about 20 of the human tumours are preceded by infections or inflammations while many oral cancers were found to develop from oral potentially malignant disorders opmd such as leukoplakia erythroplakia and erythroleukoplakia.19-21 these lesions are associated with chronic inflammation which has been observed at various stages of oral cancer and epithelial dysplasia which is known to be associated with risk of malignancy.22in addition to cancer associated inflammation certain microbial species have been found to be cancer associated.

1 and good's coverage of around 97 table 5 indicated that the number of colonies screened was sufficient to represent the normal opmd and cancer cloned libraries.the effective species number of both shannon and simpson indexes were highest for the cancer group followed by opmd and finally the normal group table 5. the species richness was the highest in the opmd group and similar between the normal and cancer group table 5.bacterial profiles of normal opmd and cancer associated oral conditionsa total of five bacteria phyla were detected in all subject groups with firmicutes as the predominant phylum followed by proteobacteria fusobacteria bacteroidetes and actinobacteria fig.

the male to female ratio of the normal and cancer group was almost equal while there were more female opmd patients table 4. the average age of the cancer group was the highest followed by the opmd group and finally the normal group table 4. the smoking and drinking habit of all three subject groups were almost similar table 4. the opmds were confirmed histologically to be epithelial dysplasia while the oral cancer was confirmed histologically to be squamous cell carcinoma.fig.

bacteria groups as- sociated to different status of clinical samples such as normal were donated as n normal and opmd as n-p opmd as p opmd and cancer as p-c cancer as c normal and cancer as n-c and all three groups as mphyla with the exception of fusobacteria.

besides that around half of the bacteria groups in actinobacteriawere found to be associated with both diseased conditions.community structure of oral microbiota amova results table 7 indicated that the significant genetic variations between all subjecttable 7 amova based on v6-v9 regions of 16s rdna which spans 751bpabbreviations n-o-c normal opmd and cancer groups n-o normal and opmd groups o-c opmd and cancer groups n-c normal and cancer groupsfig.

besides that other oral microbes such as p. melaninogenica p. veroralis and r. mucilaginosa are also proposed to be possible biomarkers for early oral cancer detection as they were detected at higher abundance in opmd oral conditions table 6. in addition the consistent association of camplylobactershowae with cancerous oral conditions tablesuggests that these oral microbes could be explored for other potential therapeutic values such as biomarkers for cancer prognosis or as vectors for targeted treatment.5859this study only identified patterns of oral microbiome variation between oral cancer and normal individuals without identifying specific confounding factors such as their immunocompromised and inflamed states.

national cancer registry report malaysia cancer statistics - data and figure 2007. putrajaya national cancer registry malaysia ministry of health 2011.omar za ali zm ibrahim tamin ns.

malaysian cancer statistics data and figure peninsular malaysia 2006. putrajaya national cancer registry malaysia minitsry of health malaysia 2006.markopoulos ak michailidou ez tzimagiorgis g. salivary markers for oral cancer detection.

cancer facts  figures 2009. atlanta american cancer society 2009. p. 16.oral cancer research  coordinating center.

malaysian j pathol 2017 391  1 - 15original articlethe oral microbiome community variations associated with normal potentially malignant disorders and malignant lesions of the oral cavitymok shao feng karuthan chinna cheah yoke kqueen ngeow wei cheong rosnah binti zain yap sook fan and alan ong han kiatfaculty of medicine and health sciences universiti tunku abdul rahman department of social and preventive medicine faculty of medicine university of malaya unit biologi molekul dan bioinformatik jabatan sains bioperubatan fakulti perubatan dan sains kesihatan universiti putra malaysia department of oro-maxillofacial surgical and medical sciences faculty of dentistry university of malaya and oral cancer research and coordinating centre faculty of dentistry university of malaya malaysiaabstractthe human oral microbiome has been known to show strong association with various oral diseases including oral cancer.

tel 603-90194722. email regardless of different subsites such as mouth and tongue.89oral cancer is a persistent health issue due to its asymptomatic early stages and the absence of reliable diagnostic techniques.10 these factors have been contributed to the late detection of advanced cancer stages thereby resulting in reduced effectiveness of treatment and the post-surgery life quality as well as poor survival rate.

normal n9 subjects were recruited with written informed consent from utar while opmd n9 and cancer n9 samples were collected from the biobank of oral medicine oral surgery clinic at the faculty of dentistry coordinated by the oral cancer research and coordinating center ocrcc um.

although the genetic structure of bacteria diversity in the opmd group was not significantly different from that of normal or cancer groups two-dimensional nmds plot showed that the bacteria community groups associated with opmd subjects were sandwiched between that of normal and cancer subjects fig.

