dissecting the possible role of the microbiome in these and other diseases will be a great challenge because 1 human genes influence the composition of the gut microbiota 2 microbial genes influence the expression of human genes 3 the metabolism of some gut microbes influences the metabolism of other gut mi- crobes and 4 diet influences both the microbiota and possibly the expression of human genes.

genes drive biochemistry the human microbiome contains exponentially more genes than there are human genes and those microbial genes produce molecules that affect human physiology.new technologies particularly rapid inexpensive nucleic acid sequencing have provided the tools to understand how the micro- biota might affect health.

more important still these microbial cells the microbiota collectively have exponentially more genes the microbiome than do human cells around 250 to 800 times more.moreover many genes in the human microbiome generate proteins including hormones neurotransmit- ters and molecules of inflammation that can enter the circulation and affect health.

over the next 2 weeks the mice receiving microbiota from obese mice became obese whereas those receiving micro- biota from lean mice remained lean.1gut microbiota from conventionally raised animals were placed in the guts of lean germ-free mice.

for examplegut microbiota from obese mice and from lean mice were transplanted into germ-free lean mice all oficutes increases.4 these experiments suggest that themicrobiome may be a reflection of obesity or lean- ness as well as a cause of it.

in light of this it is reason- able to question whether the genes of the microbiome might play a greater role in health than do human genes.

in short human genes microbial genes and diet share a complicated set of interdependencies.it might seem unlikely atfirst that the microbiome could affect the risk of major metabolic diseases.

mice that under- went rygb surgery had the expected weight loss and a characteristic change in the gut microbiome whereas mice that underwent the sham surgery did not.

trans- fer of bacteria from mice that underwent rygb sur- gery to mice that underwent the sham surgery re- sulted in weight loss although not as great as seen following rygb surgery.3investigators studied human twin pairs mostly mono- zygotic in which 1 person was obese.

recipients of feces from lean do- nors had a higher abundance of butyrate-producing bacteria.10conclusionsit is plausible that the human microbiome may affect the risk of obe- sity and type 2 diabetes and other diseases such as atherosclerosis and that manipulations of the microbiome might reduce that risk.

recent evidence suggests that the microbiome may affect the probability of many major diseases includ- ing obesity and diabetes.obesityhow could microbiota in the gut affect obesity first microbiota could influence the calories the body absorbs.

however the genes in the human microbiome also may play an im- portant role and that is news.it has been known for decades that gut bacteria syn- thesize essential vitamins and amino acids and help de- grade toxins.

gradually the obese mice became lean and their gut flora came to resemble the flora of the lean mice.

this finding suggests that the flora of lean mice may be able to dominate the flora of obese mice.4these experiments suggest that the composition of gut microbiota can influence obesity.

gut microbiota from twins discordant for obesity modulate metabolism in mice.

