a lack of nutrient availability during fasting also stimulates the synthesis and release of 5-ht from ec cells in mice due to increased transcription of tph1 similarly exposure of primary colonic ec cells to low glucose reflecting in vitro fasting conditions also induces tph1 expression and increases 5-ht synthesis and release ec cells are sensitive to both acute increases and chronic reductions in glucose availability although themechanisms governing such responses remain unclear.glucose entry to ec cells through the na-dependent glucose cotransporter 1 has been suggested as a potential pathway for glucose-stimulated 5-ht secretion in bonfigure 2. ec cells shown in purple within the mucosal lining of the gi tract act as sensory cells for a wide array of nutrient cues within the gi lumen.

2012165588-600.le chatelier e nielsen t qin j prifti e hildebrand f falony g almeida m arumugam m batto jm kennedy s leonard p li j burgdorf k grarup n jorgensen t brandslund i nielsen hb juncker as bertalan m levenez f pons n rasmussen s sunagawa s tap j tims s zoetendal eg brunak s cle'ment k dore' j kleerebezem m kristiansen k renault p sicheritz-ponten t de vos wm zucker jd raes j hansen t bork p wang j ehrlich sd pedersen o metahit consortium.

the pro- duction of luminal scfas and secondary bile acids such as deoxycholate by gut microbiota are likely activators of host ec cells given that both increase 5-ht release in a variety of experimental settings 99-102. scfas can act in a chronic fashion on ec cells by increasing tph1 expression and 5-ht synthesis the interaction ofscfas with free fatty acid receptor ffar 2 may me- diate this response however clear evidence for this in primary ec cells has not yet been provided.ec cells respond to neuromodulatory agents 2 acetylcholine g-aminobutyric acid and pituitary ade- nylate cyclase-activating peptide are all capable of in- creasing ec-cell 5-ht release in vitro 87 92 103-106. this suggests that ec cells may also be responsive to neural signals that are derived from the cns andor enteric nervous system ens.

considering thatplasma 5-ht levels increase in t2d gut-derived 5-ht may promote the development of metabolic disease secondary to its inhibition of osteoblast function by decreasing circulating levels of osteocalcin.ec cells are gi luminal sensors that regulate gi functionec cells act as important luminal sensors within the in- testinal tract by responding to a wide array of luminal and circulatory cues including nutrient and immune modu- lators as well as neurochemical and mechanical stimuli 2. isolating and studying primary ec cells has proven difficult because ec cells are dispersed throughout the gi tract epithelial cell layer.

given this sweet taste- triggered 5-ht release may represent a risk to normal blood glucose control particularly for patients with t2d.ec cells express a range of g protein-coupled re-ceptors that are tuned to other nutrients such as tastants amino acids and free fatty acids 89 93. both primary ec cells and bon cells express the olfactory receptor or1g1 and olfactory cues from spices and odorantssuch as thymol have the capacity to trigger 5-ht release 92 94. pungent compounds including allyl iso- thiocyanate and cinnamaldehyde activate the trpa1 channel in ec cells to stimulate 5-ht secretion and gut contraction the detection of these types of nutrients in the intestinal lumen is largely restricted to the small intestine expression of receptors for olfactory and pungent agents is enriched in this region of the gi tract and absent in the colon there is limited knowledge regarding the concentrations of odorants and pungent compounds in the intestinal lumen following oral con- sumption.

20131104819420-19425.almaca j molina j menegaz d pronin an tamayo a slepak v berggren po caicedo a. human beta cells produce and release serotonin to inhibit glucagon secretion from alpha cells.

the binding of 5-ht to 5-ht1d receptors inhibits insulin secretion in healthy human islets and in b-cell model cell lines 60 61. this is proposed to create a negative- feedback loop for both basal secretion and gsis 56-59 62. in contrast activation of 5-ht2 and 5-ht3 receptors augments the respiratory capacity and mem- brane excitability of pancreatic islet cells to exert an incretinlike effect by increasing insulin secretion from b cells while suppressing glucagon release from a cells through activation of 5-ht1f receptors 61-64. thusthe effect of 5-ht on insulin secretion is likely dictated by the number and type of 5-ht receptors present within individual b cells.the diverse roles of 5-ht in pancreatic islets are also illustrated under specific conditions of metabolic change.

both bon cells and primary ec cells are capable of sensing increases in glucose avail- ability 35 88 90. an acute increase in luminal glucose levels also triggers 5-ht release in intact mouse colonic tissue preparations and primary ec cells in culture .

almost all of the 5-ht in our bodies is synthesized in specialized enteroendocrine cells within the gastrointestinal gi mucosa called enterochromaffin ec cells.

ec cells are sensory cells that are capable of integrating cues from ingested nutrients the enteric nervous system and the gut microbiome.

these cells are scattered within the gastrointestinal gi epithelium and make up about 1 of all cells lining the gi tract.

enterochromaffin ec cells within the gi mucosa are specialized enteroendocrine cells that syn- thesize and secrete between 90 and 95 of total body serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine or 5-ht they are a considerable source of this important multifunctional bioamine and constitute about half of all enteroendocrinecells.

in addition we discuss the in- volvement of altered 5-ht homeostasis in clinically important metabolic diseases and examine the evidence for ec cells as critical sensory cells within the gut.5-ht regulates blood glucose and obesity through effects on hepatocyte and adipocyte functiongut-derived 5-ht is a regulator of metabolism through interactions with key metabolic target tissues 1 and altered gut-derived 5-ht is related to both t2d and obesity.

although methods for the purification and culture of primary human and rodent ec cells have recently been developed 35 82 87-89 the majority of studies of ec-cell function have been undertaken in bon cells a human carcinoid ec-cell line.

this detection of glucose levels occurs as a result of membrane depolarization and subsequent ex- tracellular ca2 influx through voltage-gated l-type ca2 channels 35 87. despite the fact that almost all glucose absorption occurs over the length of the small intestine colonic ec cells sense and respond to luminal concen- trations of glucose 35 88 89. this indicates that al- though glucose is absent in the colon under normal physiological conditions colonic ec cells may be equipped to sense and respond to the presence of glucose under disease states such as diarrhea or fast transit.

