therefore additional research is required to better understand the critical roles and interdependencies of keystone strains in the human gut microbiome to design successful therapeutics.the majority of designer formulations for modulatingthe immune response revolve around human-derived butyrate-producing bacterial species that belong to the clostridia classes iv and xvia to induce the accumula- tion of regulatory t cells that lead to the control of inflammation a decrease in the secretion of a proinflam- matory cytokine or an enhanced secretion of an anti- inflammatory cytokine by a population of human periph- eral blood mononuclear cells.

the human gut microbiome is being rec- ognized as a key factor associated with the innate immune response and exploring it has resulted in the identification of leads for therapeutics to treat conditions related to immune dysregulation and chronic infections such as asthma allergic rhinitis eczema ibd ibs crohn's disease chronic intestinal infections and various forms of food allergies like allergies to peanuts shellfish and dairy products.

magnusdottir s. heinken a. kutt l. ravcheev d. a. bauer e. noronha a. et al.

editorialdoi10.11111751-7915.12597the microbiome as a source of new enterprises and job creation considering clinical faecal and synthetic microbiome transplants and therapeutic regulationmodulation of the human immune system has become the focus for several novel approaches to treat condi- tions related to immune dysregulation chronic infections and oncology.

thus far such probiotic formula- tions have proven useful in the treatment of immune dis- orders in only a subset of patients further supporting the case for the need to better understand the interdepen- dencies and interactions among keystone strains to improve engrafting and performance of probiotic formula- tions based on synthetic microbiomes.the complexity of the human gut microbiome has limited the development of microbiome-based therapeutics.

examples of processes which are constrained by costs and time for experimen- tal validation and will benefit from predictive modelling include mode of action understanding finding new indi- cations add-onadjunct therapies root cause analysis understanding of adverse events optimized engraft- ment effects of diet secondary prevention comorbid- ity identification of predictive biomarkers optimized trial design detailed cohort studies and sample size extrapolation.an example of a start-up company that is at the fore- front of using predictive modelling for every aspect of their rd platform is gusto global their modelling plat- form enables a significant 100-fold or more in silico reduction of experimental permutations for hypothesis- driven experimental confirmation mode of action under- standing and product optimization.

this is a rapidly developing area that requires a substantial focus on efficacy and reproducibility that will enable clinical application at scale.daniel van der lelie1 safiyh taghavi1 christopherhenry123 and jack a. gilbert145 1gusto global llc 5960 fairview road suite 400 charlotte nc 28210 usa 2argonne national labora- tory mathematical and computer sciences 9700 s cass avenue lemont il 60439 usa 3computation institute university of chicago chicago il 60637 usa 4the microbiome center bioscience division argonne national laboratory 9700 s cass ave. lemont il 60439 usa and 5the microbiome center department of surgery university of chicago chicago il 60637 usareferencesatarashi k. tanoue t. shima t. imaoka a. kuwahara t. momose y. et al.

2016 generation of gen- ome-scale metabolic reconstructions for 773 members of the human gut microbiota.

2015 quantifying diet-induced metabolic changes of the human gut micro- biome.

2013 treg induction by a rationally selected mixture of clostridia strains from the human microbiota.

epub ahead of print.shoaie s. ghaffari p. kovatcheva-datchary p. mardino- glu a. sen p. pujos-guillot e. et al.

cell metab 22 320-331.van nood e. vrieze a. nieuwdorp m. fuentes s. zoe- tendal e. g. de vos w. m. et al.

recent examples of such modelling systems include casino - community and systems-level inter- active optimization shoaie et al.

2015 - and agora- assembly of gut organisms through reconstruction and analysis magnusdottir et al.

2016. it is expected that in the near future predictive modelling will change the way microbiome research and development is being carried out not just for microbial therapeutics but also in adjacent areas such as immunotherapy drugs for cancer treatment.

