moreover mice treated with penicillin demonstrated significantly elevated percentage of b cells median 10.5 vs 8.0 p 14 0.01 and decrease in the percentage of total cd4th cell median 75.4 vs 82.5 p 14 0.0039 with subsequent changes among subsets - increased percentage of regulatory t cells treg t helper 1 th1 and t helper 2 th2 cells.conclusion our study showed significant effect of penicillin on b and t cells in peripheral blood of young mice.

21-days old mice just after the weaning were randomly divided into two groups study group e animals receiving penicillin dis- solved in drinking water n 14 10 and control group e mice receiving drinking water only n 14 10 ad libitum for 28 days.

similar pattern of lymphocyte counts with decreased counts of cd4th cells in lymphoid organs but the same numbers of cd8th and cd19th as conventional colonized mice was reported in germ-free mice .

it would be interesting to prolong the experiment until the development of changes in mice body weight or autoimmune- related diseases.in summary the present work documents unique and signifi- cant effect of penicillin on b and t cells in peripheral blood of young mice.

therefore the aim of the study was to determine the effect of penicillin treatment on gut microorganisms and immune system of mice.methods 21-days old c57bl6jcmdb male mice were treated with low-dose of penicillin study group or water only control group for 4 weeks.

tissue and stool samples for histology or microbiome assessment and peripheral blood for cbc and flow cytometry evaluation were collected.results we found high variability in microbiota composition at different taxonomic levels between littermate mice kept in the same conditions independently of treatment regimen.

therefore the aim of our study was to determine the effect of early antibiotic penicillin exposition on gut micro- organisms and immune system of mice.material and methodsanimalsc57bl6jcmdb male mice medical university of bialystok bialystok poland were maintained in specific pathogen-free spf conditions.

dose of the antibiotic 1 mg of penicillin1 g of body weight was deter- mined on the basis of previous literature data and assumption that daily consumption of water is 15 ml per 100 g of mice .

mice were housed 5 per cage and they were allowed to eat standard chow diet ad libitum.

body weight of each mouse was measured every fourth day.sample collectionafter 28 days mice were anesthetized and sacrificed.

statistical sig- nificance was determined by u mann-whitney test p  0.05 was considered statistically significant.resultsbody weight cbc and histological evaluationduring the whole study period body weights of animals were within the range of growth for c57bl6jcmdb male mice.

surprisingly independently of treatment regimen control or penicillin we found substantial diversity of microbiota both at phyla and species level between littermates of c57bl6jcmdb male mice living in the same cage.

despite exactly the same environmental conditions drinking water chow diet bedding air ventilation system microbiota of littermates at phyla level differed up to 40 for firmicutes and barcteroidetes a. this phenomenon was found both in control and study mice.

interestingly at the species taxonomic level we found significant increase of bacteria para- bacteroides goldsteinii in stool and tissue samples from large in- testine after penicillin treatment in comparison to control group 9.5 vs. 4.9 p 0.008 and 10.7 vs. 6.1 p 0.008 respectively c. similar increase of p. goldsteinii presence after antibiotic exposure was observed in small intestine tissue samples however in this case the results did not reach statistical significance 19.6 vs. 12.6 p 14 0.098.lymphocyte subsets in peripheral bloodto determine whether penicillin affects the lymphocyte sub- populations we performed flow cytometry on peripheral blood mononuclear cells pbmc from mice in both groups.

comparing to controls mice treated with penicillin demonstrated significantly elevated percentage of b cells cd19 median 10.5 vs 8.0 p 0.01 and decreased percentage of total cd4th median 75.4 vs 82.5 p 0.0039 .

