in arctic ground squirrels the relative abundance of the phylum proteobacteria also increases during hibernation and in both species this is reflected by an increased abundance of the class betaproteobacteria 15 110. however proteobacteria isa relatively low-abundance phylum for both ground squirrels in all seasons 4.seasonal changes in the structure of the mucosal microbiota have been examined in 13-lined ground squirrels 25. this population resides not in the bulk lumen of the gut but rather near or embedded within the mucus layer that overlies the epithelium 129. the mucosal microbiota100806040200100806040phylumclassfigure 2relative abundances of major taxa over the annual hibernation cycle in 13-lined ground squirrel cecal luminal microbiota.mothers are adult females whose litters were randomlyassigned to groups of squirrels sampled in summer augustearly winter 1 month of hibernation late winter  4 months of hibernation and spring 2 weeks posthibernation after refeeding.

from mid-summer through early fall ground squirrels accumulate large adipose stores with body mass typically doubling from spring emergence to fall immergence into underground burrows.ground squirrels are homeothermic during the active season body temperatures 35-37c andthen experience variable body temperatures during the hibernation season lasting 5-6 months in 13-lined ground squirrels and 8-9 months in arctic ground squirrels.

that said estimates made using qrt-pcr and probes for domain bacteria suggest no change in bacterial numbers in 13-lined ground squirrels hibernating for 1 month but a significant reduction after 3 months of winter fasting 14. similarly in arctic ground squirrels flow cytometry and live-dead assays of cecal luminal bacteria showed reduced cell densities and proportion of dead cells in hibernation relative to summer levels 110.changes in taxonomic composition over the annual hibernation cycle in ground squirrels suggest a possible reprogramming of microbiome function.

seasonal changes in scfas in the cecal metabolome are consistent with the shift to primary mucin degraders during hibernation such as a. muciniphila which produce acetate and propionate 24 and with the reduction in lachnospiraceae many of which are butyrate producers 35 69. in 13-lined ground squirrels after 2 weeks of refeeding in spring microbial scfa production does not return fully to summer levels consistent with the transitional nature of the spring microbial community 15. in arctic ground squirrels winter scfa concentrations and proportions are not changed after 3 days of constant high body tem- perature posthibernation in the absence of feeding 110 confirming that the absence of dietary substrates and not low temperature itself is the main driver of metabolic output of the hibernator microbiota.the dominant effect of diet in regulating taxonomic composition of the hibernator microbiomeis particularly evident when contrasting results in ground squirrels with those in the syrian hamster mesocricetus auratus which feeds during interbout arousals to normothermia.

together these two studies provide an insightful survey of seasonal changes in ground squirrels microbiotas and demonstrate the resilience of the communities in the face of extreme changes in substrate availability and temperature.phylum-level changes in luminal microbiota composition over the hibernation cycle that arecommon to both ground squirrel species include increases in the relative abundance of bac- teroidetes and verrucomicrobia and reduced abundance of firmicutes during hibernation 15110 figure 2. for bacteroidetes otus that match to the family rickenellaceae genus alistipes exhibit particularly strong changes and for arctic ground squirrels the family 24-7 also increases during hibernation.

allowing hamsters to hibernate had no effect on the numbers or taxonomic diversity of cecal microbes assessed by flow cytometry and quantitative polymerase chain reaction relative to nonhibernating hamsters whereas fasting nonhibernating hamsters for 4 days led to taxonomic changes that resembled more closely the ground squirrel hibernator microbiota 107. for example fasted hamsters have increased abundance of a. muciniphila and desulfovibrio as do hibernating ground squirrels 15 110. concentrations of acetate and total scfas are not affected by hibernation in hamsters whereas they are reduced by fasting consistent with the strong influence of feeding on microbiota metabolic activity during hibernation 107.in another sciurid rodent the alpine marmot cecal scfa concentrations in wild-caught ani- mals are lowest in animals that had recently emerged from hibernation in spring prior to refeeding and increase gradually throughout the active season peaking in midsummer animals 48. although the molar proportion of acetate does not vary among seasonal sampling points the relative pro- portions of propionate and butyrate showed the same seasonal switch as for ground squirrels the propionate proportion was higher and butyrate proportion lower in marmots recently emerged from hibernation compared with values in midsummer 48.seasonal changes in microbiota composition were examined in the largest hibernator the brown bear in a study using fecal samples collected from free-ranging animals 104. comparison of the summer versus winter bear microbiota is of particular interest because in contrast to small hibernators bears avoid falls in body temperature below 30c 113 thus eliminating the potential role of very low host body temperatures in shaping the hibernator microbiota.

phylogenetic di- versity and numbers of unique otus are lowest in late winter and highest 2 weeks after refeeding in spring for 13-lined ground squirrels 15. in arctic ground squirrels these parameters peak in summer squirrels followed by the winter states of torpor and iba with posthibernation diversity the lowest 110. thus microbial community diversity falls once feeding ceases in early winter and is not restored until food intake resumes in spring.

hibernation was facilitated by housing squirrels in cold rooms 4c ambient for 13-lined ground squirrels and -5c for arctic ground squirrels and food and water were removed after the start of torpor bouts for the duration of hibernation.results of both studies revealed that season has a strong effect on community assemblage of luminal microbiotas across the annual cycle.

a dominant member of the human colonic mucosal microbiota 119 it is not clear why prevotella within the 13-lined ground squirrel mucosal microbiota is so strongly affected by hibernation although its abundance is reduced in the arctic ground squirrel luminal microbiota 110. this genus has been shown to be prevalent in human populations ingesting diets high in complex plant polysaccharides 20 21 although it is known to be capable of degrading mucins 123.the taxonomic shifts in 13-lined and arctic ground squirrel microbiotas correlate well withknown substrate preferences of some of the major taxa in the mammalian gut microbiota.

data from reference 15 figure reprinted withpermission.2001009080706050403020100motherssummerfamilyearlylate winterspringdesulfovibrionaceae burkholderiales verrucomicrobiaceae lactobacillaceae clostridiales clostridiales ruminococcaceae lachnospiraceae porphyromonadaceae rickenellaceae prevotellaceae bacteroidaceae bacteroidalesis thought to be relatively more stable within the gut environment with greater resistance to nutritional perturbations such as periods of starvation or voluntary fasting due to its ability to use host-derived mucin glycans for growth 80 83 94. seasonal changes in mucosal microbiota community structure and composition in 13-lined ground squirrels are generally consistent with those in the luminal community although seasonal differences are less pronounced 25. one notable difference was the relative abundance of the bacteroidetes family prevotellaceae genus prevotella which is not affected by hibernation in the 13-lined ground squirrel luminal microbiota but is substantially reduced by late winter in the mucosal microbiota.

this bacterium is well-known for its mucin-degrading ability and is able to grow on mucin as its sole carbon source 24. normally a common but relatively low-abundance taxa in the mammalian gut its abundance increases sufficiently in the hibernating 13-lined and arctic ground squirrel microbiotas to become the third most abundant phylum nearly as abundant as firmicutes 15 25 110. bacterial mucin degradation by organisms such as a. muciniphila releases sulfates which may help explain the increased abundance of the sulfur-reducing desulfovibrio observed in the hibernating 13-lined and arctic ground squirrels microbiota relative to summer levels 15 110. dietary shifts not only affect the abundance of bacterial groups known as primary degraders that hydrolyze complex chemical bonds in food constituents e.g.

such core assemblages in the ground squirrel gut may represent taxa that are particularly persistent during extreme dietary shifts of feeding and fasting.in general substantial similarity exists between microbiotas in 13-lined and arctic ground squirrels at the family level and higher despite the fact that the two species inhabit very different environments short-grass prairie versus arctic tundra respectively and maintain different min- imal body temperatures during torpor 3c versus -2.9c.

in other ground squirrel species expression of urea cycle enzymes is reduced during hibernation relative to summer which supports routing of bacterially derived urea nitrogen to amino acid rather than urea synthesis 31 90 122. more research is needed to confirm these intriguing results and characterize the microbial contribution to uns in hibernating animals.seasonal fatteningsome studies in nonhibernating mammals have suggested that a shift to higher relative abundance of the firmicutes compared with the bacteroidetes phyla is associated with fat accumulation and potential for obesity and conversely that weight loss and leanness are associated with a rise in bacteroidetes 60 115. although not all studies have supported this idea 29 96 it is reasonable to ask whether a shift in bacterial composition or activity contributes to the dramatic increase in white adipose tissue accumulation across the active season in obligate hibernators 19. this question was addressed in juvenile arctic ground squirrels that were born in captivity from wild- caught pregnant females and tracked across their first active season with microbiota and white adipose mass sampling at weaning and at 4 6 8 and 10 weeks postweaning 109. no correlations between firmicutes relative abundance and body condition weight and fat mass were observed suggesting that at least for this species and sampling regime changes in gut microbiota during the active season are not involved in fat deposition prior to hibernation.

how- ever information from these studies is limited because the majority of gut bacteria are unculturable.sequenced-based microbiota analysisthe first sequence-based targeted study of luminal microbiota in 13-lined ground squirrels used quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction qrt-pcr with dna extracted from summer and hibernating squirrels with primers targeted to domain bacteria a bacteroides- prevotella group lactobacillus-enterococcus group and eubacteria-clostridium group.

arctic ground squirrels were all trapped in the wild and then sampled in summer after 3 months of hibernation in torpid or interbout arousal states or 3 days after hibernation ended when squirrels were at high body temperature but before feeding resumed.

