mice were divided into four groups and subjected to either acontrol liquid diet control group con a 4 wv ethanol-containing liquid diet ethanol group etoh a 4 wv ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.4 g l-1 lppe low dose lppe-sup- plemented group etoh  l-lppe or a 4 wv ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.8 g l-1 lppe high dose lppe-supplemented group etoh  h-lppe for 8 weeks.

different superscriptletters indicate significant differences  p  0.05. con mice fed acontrol liquid diet etoh mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet etoh  l-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet sup- plemented with 0.4 g l-1 lppe and etoh  h-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.8 g l-1 lppe.and protein levels in the l-lppe-supplemented group were markedly decreased by 54 32 and 35 respectively com- pared to those of the etoh group  p  0.05. l-lppe sup- plementation normalized the agpat2 and dgat1 mrna levels.

different superscript letters indicate significant differences  p  0.05. con mice fed a control liquid diet etoh mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid dietetoh  l-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet sup- plemented with 0.4 g l-1 lppe and etoh  h-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.8 g l-1 lppe.effects of lppe on hepatic fatty acid and tg synthesis in ethanol-induced liver injury in miceas expected a significantly higher expression level of nuclear srebp-1c protein was found in the etoh group than in the con group.

different superscript letters indicate significant differences p  0.05. con mice fed a control liquid diet etoh mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet etoh  l-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.4 g l-1 lppe and etoh  h-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.8 g l-1 lppe.

different superscript letters indicate significant differences p  0.05. con mice fed a control liquid diet etoh mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet etoh  l-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.4 g l-1 lppe and etoh  h-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.8 g l-1 lppe.

different superscript letters indicate significant differences p  0.05. con mice fed a control liquid diet etoh mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet etoh  l-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.4 g l-1 lppe and etoh  h-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.8 g l-1 lppe.

con mice fed a control liquid diet etoh mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet etoh  l-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.4 g l-1 lppe and etoh  h-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.8 g l-1 lppe.discussion and conclusionschronic alcohol consumption can change lipid profiles and result in ald.6729 bile acid has long been known to be essen- tial in dietary lipid absorption and cholesterol catabolism and increased serum bile acid is observed in all stages of ald.32 in the present study chronic alcohol intake led to a noticeable increase in the liver-to-body weight ratio ast activity and the bile acid level in the serum and the tg level in the serum andliver which was consistent with previous studies.6732 lppe showed biphasic effects on ethanol-induced liver injury in mice in the present study.

different superscript letters indicate significant differences  p  0.05. con mice fed a control liquid diet etoh mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet etoh  l-lppe mice fed an ethanol-con- taining liquid diet supplemented with 0.4 g l-1 lppe and etoh  h-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with0.8 g l-1 lppe.fig.

different superscript letters indicate sig-nificant differences  p  0.05. con mice fed a control liquid dietetoh mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet etoh  l-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.4 g l-1 lppe and etoh  h-lppe mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet sup- plemented with 0.8 g l-1 lppe.effects of lppe on the intestinal microbial compositionwe assessed the relative abundance of faecal microbiota in mice table 5. a total of eight different bacterial phyla were observed in which bacteroidetes proteobacteria firmicutes and deferribacteres phyla represented 94-98 of the total sequences.

the etoh group etoh  l-lppe group and etoh h-lppe group were given the ethanol-containing liquid diet alone or supplemented with 0.4 and 0.8 g l-1 of lppe respectively ad libitum for 8 weeks.

the mice were then randomly divided into the following four groups n  10 per group control group con ethanol group etoh low dose lppe-supplemented group etoh  l-lppe and high dose lppe-supplemented group etoh  h-lppe.

representative liver sections from mice sub- jected to a control liquid diet con an ethanol-containing liquid dietetoh and an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.4 or0.8 g l-1 lppe etoh  l-lppe or etoh  h-lppe groups for 8 weeks.

l-lppe supplementation reversed the ethanol- induced changes in bacteroides acidifaciens.effects of lppe on the serum endotoxin levelethanol feeding resulted in a significant increase of the serum endotoxin level 75.94 - 4.49 eu l-1 compared to the con group 65.4 - 6.66 eu l-1  p  0.05. l-lppe 68.91 - 3.42eu l-1 but not h-lppe 74.40 - 5.19 eu l-1 supplementation significantly reduced the ethanol-induced increase of the serum endotoxin level.table 5 effects of lppe on the changes of the faecal microbial composition in ethanol-induced liver injury in micebacterial targetsrelative abundance conetohetoh  l-lppeetoh  h-lppecyanobacteria phylum1.035 - 0.430.004 - 0.0040.006 - 0.006n.d.data are means - se n  5.  signifies significant differences p  0.05 when compared with the con group  signifies significant differences p  0.05 when compared with the etoh group.

conversely more and larger fat droplets were observed in the etoh  h-lppe group than in the etoh group revealing the aggravativeeffect of h-lppe on ethanol-induced hepatocyte steatosis.table 3 effects of lppe on lipid-related parameters in the serum and liverdata are means - sd.

the liquid diet provided 35 of calories from fat 19 of calories from carbohydrates 18 of calories from proteins and 28 of calories from ethanol 4 wv ethanol-containing liquid diet or isocaloric maltose dextrin control liquid diet.

