these interactions may shape the evolutionary trajectory of p. aeruginosa while providing new opportunities for therapeutic exploitation of the cf lung microbiome.keywords interspecific interactions multispecies interactions microbiome cystic fibrosis pseudomonas aeruginosa microbial communitiesintroductionindividuals with cystic fibrosis cf suffer from a buildup of thick viscous mucous in the airways predisposing them to life- long bacterial lung infections which are often fatal.

crucially this implies that the role of some cf microorganisms in disease may be subtle actingthrough cross-species interactions rather than being recognised pathogens per se.how might multispecies interactionsshape p. aeruginosa virulenceover the course of chronic infections p. aeruginosa cf isolates commonly display adaptive phenotypes such as conversion to mucoidy and loss of motility as well as reduced expression of acute virulence factors and extracellular toxins smith et al.

aeruginosa evolution within the cf lung.here we focus on four clinically relevant p. aeruginosa traits that may in part shape and be shaped by interactions with the natural microbial community.

co-infection of p. aeruginosa with avirulentfigure 1. schematic representation of phenazine production by pseudomonas aeruginosa growing in a biofilm in the cystic fibrosis lung.

reported enhanced p. aeruginosa pyocyanin production when co-cultured with oral viridans streptococci streptococcus oralis streptococcus mitis streptococcus gordonii and streptococcus sanguinis and these co- cultures exhibited increased pathogenicity in an insect host model compared with p. aeruginosa alone.

ultimately by under- standing whether community context matters for p. aeruginosa pyocyanin production it may be possible to manipulate the lung microbiome to reduce the severity of clinical symptoms during cf-associated exacerbations.biofilm formationthe intractability of p. aeruginosa in cf has been largely at- tributed to the presence of mucoid alginate-producing strains in the later stages of infection ramsey and wozniak  sousa and periera  winstanley o'brien and brockhurst .

for instance competition between p. aeruginosa and b. cepacia induces p. aeruginosa genes normally ex- pressed under iron-limited conditions including siderophores.

this is because a b. cepacia siderophore ornibactin which p. aeruginosa cannot use restricts iron availability to p. aeruginosa weaver and kolter .

aeruginosa and s. aureus display a striking negative cor- relation with one another as cf patients age cystic fibrosis foundation  suggesting that p. aeruginosa can displace s. aureus in the later stages of infection.

this interaction between the host and p. aeruginosa enhances the clearance of s. aureus without significantly affecting the growth of p. aeruginosa.

infection tends to occur subsequent to p. aeruginosa colonisation resulting in co-infections that trig- ger more severe clinical outcomes compared with p. aeruginosa or a. fumigatus alone amin et al.

in one study that screened 66 p. aeruginosa and b. cenocepacia cf clinicalisolates 81 of p. aeruginosa and 57 of b. cenocepacia strains produced bacteriocin-like toxins conferring inhibitory activity toward the other species bakkal et al.

in order to fully appreciate how p. aeruginosa populations will respond to these classes of drugs it is vital that we understand how the species involved interact naturally on both ecological and evolutionary timescales.outlookthere is tantalising evidence that interactions within and among species can alter virulence properties of p. aeruginosa in the short term and potentially shape the evolutionary trajectory of this pathogen in the long term.

fems microbiology letters 364 2017 fnx128doi 10.1093femslefnx128advance access publication date 13 july 2017 minireviewm i n i r ev i ew - pathogens  pathogenicitythe role of multispecies social interactions in shaping pseudomonas aeruginosa pathogenicity in the cystic fibrosis lungsiobha'n o'brienand joanne l. fothergill1center for adaptation to a changing environment ace eth zu rich 8092 zu rich switzerland 2departmentof biology university of york wentworth way york yo10 5dd uk and 3institute of infection and global health university of liverpool 8 west derby street liverpool l69 7b3 ukcorresponding author center for adaptation to a changing environment ace eth zu rich chn g35.1 universita tstrasse 16 8092 zu rich switzerland.

tel 41 44 632 8494 e-mail one sentence summary how social interactions among microbes living in the cystic fibrosis lung may be influencing patient health.editor martin welchabstractpseudomonas aeruginosa is a major pathogen in the lungs of cystic fibrosis cf patients.

