in a re- markable advance in neuronal engineering it was demonstrated that adult human skin cells from both healthy adults and pd patients could be used to create pluripotent stem cells ips cells which could then generate dopamine progenitor cells.

while this was a fanciful idea for many years a solution appeared more realistic with the development of the capability to graft dopaminergic progenitor cells derived from embryonic stem cells into brain.

while several clinical studies in pd patients were able to successfully graft dopaminergic progenitor cells into the bg the overall results have been disappointingfrom a therapeutic perspective not to mention the issues related to the use of es cells.

an- other formulary needs to involve ne since the entire catecholamine system ne cells in the lc and da cells in the sn not just da un- dergoes cell loss in pd.

the bioengineering of stem cells to create dopamine replacement neurons is not the solution for parkinson'srobert j. carey jack l. careya upstate medical university 750 east adams st. syracuse ny 13210 united statesb ohio state university columbus oh 43210 united statesa r t i c l e i n f o keywords parkinson's stem cellsdopamine neuron grafting levodopaneuro-protection micro-biotain the early 1960's it was established that the degeneration of do- pamine da neurons underlies the akinesia of pd.

ideally the graft of the progenitor cells would be situated in the sn and develop axons capable of innervating da receptor fields.

it is only feasible however to graft cells into terminal da projection areas.

the initial efforts focused upon grafting da progenitor cells into the basal ganglia bg in order to provide a stable source of da n the bg.

recently interest in the grafting of da cells into the brain of pd patients has been rekindled with developments in stem cell research.

these progenitor cells were sub- sequently grafted into the gp of two-year old primates that had pre- viously been treated with mptp a chemical that induces parkinson-like akinesia.

one conspicuous shortcoming of this grafting approach is the incredible technical demands required to create viable non-tumorogenic midbrain da progenitor cells.

another is the surgical skill required to symmetrically implant the cells into brain.

given that pd is a complex degenerative disorder any consideration of un- dertaking the expense and resource demands to achieve an implanta- tion of da brain cells into an aged brain with ongoing degenerative processes and expecting a sustainable therapeutic outcome seems un- realistic.

