because overexpression of the duox gene is not sufficient for duox activation at the membrane we were unable to use similar experiments to test its role in epithelial cell proliferation or dysbiosis.dysbiotic microbiota of caga transgenic flies is transmissible and sufficient for cell proliferationbased on our findings that the altered gut microbiota of caga transgenic flies promotes epi- thelial cell proliferation in the midgut we predicted that microbiota of caga transgenic fliesthe dysbiotic microbiota of caga transgenic drosophila is transmissible and promotes pathological proliferation in cohouseddrosophila.

interestingly cohousing appeared to have no effect on the microbial commu- nity of caga transgenic flies nor do we see any effect on cell proliferation .from these data we conclude that the altered microbiota of caga transgenic flies is transmissi- ble with the ability to displace a healthy conventional community and promote increased intestinal epithelial cell proliferation even in control flies.the pro-proliferative effect of a dysbiotic gut microbiota requires interspecies interactionsnext we aimed to identify the specific pro-proliferative component of the dysbiotic microbiota in caga transgenic flies.

these data suggest that the proliferation of midgut cells observed in caga transgenic flies is multifactorial expression of caga induces cell autonomous proliferation and the altered microbiota promotes cell non- autonomous proliferation.next we wanted to determine if expression of caga within the midgut epithelium was responsible for shaping the altered community observed in caga transgenic flies.

this suggests that microbiota of caga transgenic flies contributes to a portion of the total increased cell proliferation observed in cv caga flies as compared to cv controls whereas the remaining portion of proliferation is directly due to expression of caga.

we con- cluded that the excessive proliferation promoted by the dysbiotic microbiota of caga trans- genic flies is not dependent upon previously known mechanisms and instead requires unknown interspecies interactions to promote proliferation in the drosophila gut.discussionour analysis of the h. pylori protein caga expressed transgenically in the drosophila adult midgut reveals distinct mechanisms by which this bacterial virulence factor causes excessive epithelial cell proliferation .

qpcr for diptericin expression shows overexpression of diptericin similar to levels observed in caga transgenic flies c. cell proliferation shown by anti-phospho histone h3 cells per adult midgut shows overexpression of diptericin is not sufficient for cell proliferation in the midgut d. p0.05 p0.01p0.0001 and ns not significant as assessed by a student's t-test for all panels.caga transgenic flies.

this may indicate a previously unappreciated phosphorylation-independent function of caga.caga transgenic drosophila have an altered gut microbiota that promotes spontaneous cell proliferation within the gut epitheliumdysbiosis of gi microbiota is well recognized as a contributor to both cell proliferation and inflammatory processes known to facilitate the development and progression of intestinal and colonic cancers .

based on the observed differences in microbiota composition in caga transgenic flies we conclude that caga flies harbor an altered gut microbiota from that of con- trol flies.

in the caga transgenic flies reared gf we observed a level of cell proliferation intermediate between cv caga flies and gf control flies .

we found flies associated with lp alone or the ap21lp community showed significantly lower average cell proliferation than was observed with the ap21lb22community association 30 vs 55 cellsmidgut in control 31 vs 94 cellsmidgut in caga trans- genic flies and 29 vs 91 cellsmidgut in cagaepisa transgenic flies .

similarly cagaepisa flies cohoused with caga flies also adopted a caga-like microbiota of ap and lb  and we observed higher rates of cell proliferation within the midgut epithelium than when they were housed with control or other cagaepisaflies p0.01 .

previous reports in drosophila have shown that the composition of microbial communities in the gut and immediate environ- ment are affected by selective processes within the fly gut  therefore we expected cohous- ing flies might result in transmission of the dysbiotic microbiota and could initiate excessive cell proliferation in control flies.

representative strains a. pasteurianus dorap21 ap21 and l. brevis dorlb22 lb22 were collected from caga transgenic flies reared under standard conditions and used in subsequent experiments.the drosophila midgut microbiota is necessary for development and normal homeostatic cell proliferation  similar to vertebrate gut microbiota .

taken together we conclude that overexpression of the antimicrobial peptide diptericin is a conse- quence rather than a cause of altered gut microbiota and does not contribute to either the increased cell proliferation or the altered microbiota observed in caga transgenic flies.

because overexpression of diptericin appears to be dependent on a dysbiotic microbiota we wanted to determine whether overex- pressing diptericin could explain the microbiota-dependent portion of cell proliferation inoverexpression of diptericin is not sufficient for proliferation and occurs in response to dysbiotic microbiota in caga transgenic drosophila.

