the most common allergenic foods are tree nuts peanuts milk eggs shellfish fishdepartment of pathology the university of chicago chicago il 60637 andcommittee on immunology the university of chicago chicago il 60637received for publication july 22 2016. accepted for publication august 23 2016.this work was supported by national institutes of health grant r01 ai 106302 the sunshine foundation the university of chicago center for translational medicine the university of chicago digestive diseases research core center grant dk42086 and food allergy research and education.address correspondence and reprint requests to dr. cathryn r. nagler the university of chicago jules f. knapp medical research building r120 924 east 57th street chicago il 60637. e-mail address abbreviations used in this article dc dendritic cell f th2 food ag-specific th2 cell gap goblet cell-associated ag passage ilc innate lymphoid cell ln lymph node mln mesenteric lymph node ra retinoic acid scfa short-chain fatty acid treg regulatory t cell.copyright c 2017 by the american association of immunologists inc. 0022-17671730.00wheat and soy although a great number of other foods can elicit an allergic response 24. a healthy immune response to food ags is a state of nonresponsiveness referred to as oral tolerance 25. when oral tolerance is not induced food ags can instead evoke a response that is characterized by differ- entiation of naive t cells into food ag-specific th2 cells fth2s which produce large amounts of il-4 and il-13 that drive b cells to produce ag-specific ige 26. ige binds to the surface of mast cells and upon re-exposure ag cross-linking results in mast cell degranulation.

gaps form in the steady-state in the small intestine but goblet cell responsiveness to acetylcholine is inhibited by myd88-dependent goblet cell-intrinsic sensing of the gut microbiota in the colon 80. deletion of myd88 in goblet cells or disruption of the microbiota by antibiotics overrides the normal suppression by the microbiota and allows the formation of colonic gaps potentiating inflammation due to uncontrolled exposure to luminal contents 80 81. more- over altering gap formation in early life results in persis- tent th2 responses r. newberry personal communication providing an additional link between alterations in the gut microbiota in early life and a predisposition to food allergy.intestinal epithelial cells also monitor the luminal envi-ronment and produce cytokines that direct immune responses in the underlying lamina propria 82. stressed or damaged intestinal epithelial cells secrete the cytokines il-33 tslp and il-25 also collectively referred to as alarmins to induce protective immunity and promote repair 82. these cyto- kines are associated with the initiation of the protective type 2 immune response that is responsible for the clearance of en- teric helminths and repair of epithelial damage induced by infection 83-85. epithelial alarmins activate type 2 ilcs to produce il-13 and prime intestinal dcs to promote the differentiation of naive t cells to th2 cells that mediate worm clearance 82 86. recently the population of epithelial cells that produces il-25 was revealed to be a specialized lineage known as tuft cells 83-85 87. howitt et al.

within the mln large amounts of retinoic acid ra a vitamin a derivative and tgf-b produced by cd103 dcs and ln stromal cells instruct ag-specific naive t cells to differentiate into tregs 38-40. additionally ra and tgf-b induce upregulation of the gut-homing receptors ccr9 and a4b7 on these newly differentiated tregs to re- cruit them back to the intestinal lamina propria 38-40 where these tregs are expanded by the production of il-10 from resident cx3cr1 macrophages 41. some of these newly expanded tregs may also enter into the circulation to mediate systemic tolerance to orally available ags 42. in support of this model oral tolerance is abrogated in the ab- sence of gut homing or in animals lacking cx3cr1 mac- rophages 41. other work showed that oral ag exposure induces an allergic phenotype in mice with vitamin a defi- ciency 43. ra-deficient mln dcs drive naive t cells to- ward a pathogenic th2 phenotype instead of tregs 43. collectively these data support the concept that food ag- specific tregs are critical for protection from dietary allergies 41 42. however these studies only showed that ag-specific tregs induced by oral administration of model food ags such as ova induce nonresponsiveness to subsequent pe- ripheral immunization 42. as such it has not been clear whether treg development is a feature common to all food ags found in a complex diet or whether these food ag-specific tregs also contribute to intestinal homeostasis.

recent work using germ-free mice weaned onto an elemental diet void of ags demonstrated that the majority of tregs in the small intestine are indeed induced in response to food ags in a complex diet 44. the induction of small intestinal tregs occurs rapidly following the introduction of solid food and decreases over 4-6 wk following removal of food ags 44. mice weaned onto ag-free diets had a greater proportion of ag-specific t cells differentiating into inflammatory t cells rather than tregs following oral ag administration suggesting that tregs raised against dietary ags limit proinflammatory responses to model ags such as ova.

1. it is possible that bacteria-specific tregs migrate to the small intestinal lamina propria perhaps through recirculation via the mln and secrete il-10 to reinforce the tolerogenic environment 54. indeed a population of rorgt tregs is present within the small intestine albeit at a lower frequency than in the colon and is reduced following anti- biotic treatment supporting the idea that microbe-driven tregs can also localize at this site 44. in light of this the tolerogenic environment maintained by bacteria-derived tregs likely contributes to the production of food ag-specific tregs rather than proallergic th2 cells upon subsequent exposurefigure 1. induction of tolerance to food and bacterial ags in the intestine food ag is taken up by dcs in the small intestine that migrate to the proximal mln.

as such the tissue-selective inflammation observed in this model may in- dicate that the inflammatory response occurs as a result of a breakdown in tolerance to food ags.in addition to microbial ligands that can be sensed via pattern recognition receptors commensal bacteria release metabolites such as short-chain fatty acids scfas upon fermentation of insoluble dietary fibers 4. scfas including acetate propio- nate and butyrate were demonstrated to have immunogenic activity locally within the intestine and systemically 23 60- 62. scfas are used by colonocytes as an energy source 63 64 but they also have immunomodulatory properties by sig- naling through g protein-coupled receptors 65-67 and act to inhibit histone deactelylases 68. one possible consequence of dysbiosis for the development of allergic responses may result from reduced levels of scfas 69. there is a body of literature supporting the idea that low levels of scfas are associated with an allergic phenotype and that increasing scfa levels can ameliorate disease 61 63 70. one mechanism by which scfas protect against allergic disease is through the induction of colonic tregs 60 62 68. the addition of scfas to the drinking water of germ-free mice resulted in an increased abundance of colonic tregs and protected against colonic in- flammation 62. recent work showed that mice fed a high- fiber diet had increased scfa levels and were protected against food allergy in part through enhanced induction of tregs in the mln 23. dcs isolated from the mln of the mice fed a high-fiber diet had increased retinal dehydrogenase activity compared with controls suggesting a link between the pro- tective effects of dietary fiber and vitamin a metabolism 23.microbiota-mediated modulation of intestinal barrier functionit is remarkable to think that a single layer of epithelial cells is all that separates the enormous number and variety of food ags and microbes within the intestinal lumen from the underlying immune cell-rich lamina propria.

science 349 993-997.lathrop s. k. s. m. bloom s. m. rao k. nutsch c. w. lio n. santacruzd.

intestinal expression of il-25 il-33 and tslp is reduced in germ-free mice and increases following colonization 88-90. moreover administration of il-25 can alter the expression of antimicrobial peptides changing the composition of the microbiota and demonstrating a role for il-25 in the host- microbe cross-talk that is essential for homeostasis 91. in the context of allergic inflammation allergen exposure can in- duce the release of alarmins and drive the pathogenic type 2 immune response associated with disease 71. overexpression of il-25 or il-33 drives allergic responses to dietary ags suggesting that these epithelial-derived cytokines may con- tribute to the development of dietary allergies by skewing the immune environment in the intestine from tolerogenic to proallergic 92 93. a dysbiotic microbiome might also elicit epithelial alarmins and prime for allergic sensitization to food 94. in this setting characterized by il-4 production by mast cells and th2 t cells oral allergen exposure results in reprogramming of tregs from a tolerogenic to a th2-like phenotype further propagating the allergic response 95. il-33 was shown to drive the expansion of gata3 tregs in the colon 96 which are similar in phenotype to reprog- rammed tregs implicated in the loss of tolerance to food ags 95 supporting the idea that epithelial alarmin production may alter the immunological environment in the intestine and contribute to allergic sensitization.

immunity 38 1211-1222.han d. m. c. walsh k. s. kim s. w. hong j. lee j. yi g. rivas c. d. surh and y. choi.

specialized epithelial sub- populations have unique properties and functions that are important for enforcing barrier protection to prevent un- controlled access of ags to the lamina propria 53. these include the production of antimicrobial peptides by paneth cells and of mucus by goblet cells which together form a physical barrier that limits the access of bacteria to the epi- thelial surface 71. additionally intestinal epithelial cells express tight junction proteins that seal off the underlying immune-rich lamina propria from excessive exposure to lu- minal ags 72. we found that increased intestinal per- meability contributes to food ag sensitization.

finally we examine the clinical evidence for a role for the microbiota in regulating food allergen sensitization and explore strategies for the development of microbiome-modulating therapeutics to prevent or treat food allergy.extending the hygiene hypothesis to the microbiotathe pathogenesis of food allergy involves an aberrant type 2 immune response to dietary ags.

these findings raise the possibility that colonization early in life with a low- immunostimulatory microbiota can impair aspects of im- mune education and predispose to inflammatory diseases such as food allergy 35 36. a better understanding of howvarious components of the microbiota influence immune system development will inform therapeutic strategies aimed at restoring the benefits conferred by particular microbial communities.oral tolerance to food agsthe gastrointestinal tract is under constant bombardment by microbial and food ags.

a. peterson t. s. stappenbeck and c. s. hsieh.

science 349 989-993.houston s. a. v. cerovic c. thomson j. brewer a. m. mowat and s. milling.

science 336 489-493.arrieta m. c. l. t. stiemsma p. a. dimitriu l. thorson s. russell s. yurist- doutsch b. kuzeljevic m. j. gold h. m. britton d. l. lefebvre et al child study investigators.

