finally we point the way to microbiome studies that can better take into account the evolutionary properties of hosts microbes and their symbioses to improve our knowledge both of the under- lying biology and for practical applications in human and animal health.global diversity of the human microbiome although the 6.5 meter human digestive tract consists of three organs--the stomach small intestine and largec knight et al.

for example the modern day distri- bution of helicobacter pylori strains aligns with known human migrations the second question that arises is do these differences between populations matter are they larger than expected for a species that eats diets and lives in environments as variable as our own to answer this it is useful to compare human microbiomes to our close evolutionary relatives the non-human primates.the human gut microbiome in the context of our closest evolutionary ancestors non-human primates despite the evolutionary relevance surprisingly few studies systematically compare human and non-human primate gut microbiomes.

these data would offer insight into whether unique andor divergently evolved aspects of human physiology and environments resulted in human-specific gut microbiome traits and whether non- human primates represent a model for understanding dietary transitions and their impact on the microbiome over human evolutionary history.in this sense studies of captive primates with artificially manipulated diets provide helpful context for understanding human dietary transitions.

bmc biology 2017 15127doi 10.1186s12915-017-0454-7the human microbiome in evolutionemily r. davenport1 jon g. sanders2 se jin song2 katherine r. amato3 andrew g. clark1 and rob knight245the microbiome in the context of evolutionwe are in the midst of a revolution in our understand- ing of the human microbiome box 1. a decade ago very little was known of the inventory of microbes that inhabit different parts of the human body how they as- semble into communities of varying levels of complexity and how they relate to microbiomes in other species.

how do human microbiomes compare with our evolu- tionary ancestors are those patterns consistent with a common assumption that the microbiome evolves with the host if so what exactly is evolving in a microbiome and how does evolutionary history in the microbiome matter to human health and fitness if so how can we use evolutionary history to better understand the assem- bly and effects of the microbiome to the benefit of human healthto address these questions we first describe the hu- man gut microbiome and its contents.

given the overall similarities among primate microbiomes targeting these related but contrasting lineages for more detailed genomic and functional characterization offers unique oppor- tunities for understanding both the overall function of the human microbiome as well as how evolution of its constituents impacts human health.the human gut microbiome in the context of more distant ancestors mammalsthe association between diet and phylogeny among pri- mate microbiomes echoes the larger patterns of diversity among vertebrate gut communities as evidenced by looking at convergence of dietary transitions and micro- biomes across mammals fig.

h. pylori which has long been known to codiversify with human mitochondrial lineages induces variable gastric disease symptom severity in dif- ferent host genotypes in a manner consistent with either coevolutionary processes or lineage-specific adaptation in a recent paper seeking to tease apart signals of dietary and phylogenetic correlation in mammalian gut microbiota many of the most tightly codiversifying mi- crobial lineages also associated with inflammatory bowel disease in human datasets suggesting that the pattern of codiversification itself may be an especially useful tool for finding microbes relevant to human health these codiversified lineages make clear candidates for investigating the underlying basis for recent formula- tions of the hygiene hypothesis which posit that im- mune stimulation by microbes has a causal relationship with a number of chronic disease states and that differ- ences in transmission efficiency coupled with thebox 3 do microbiomes evolvemicrobiomes clearly impact host performance and have changed along the branches of the animal evolutionary tree.

by interrogating the char- acteristics of and mechanisms underlying this divergence we should be able to gain the most comprehensive view of what makes the human microbiome human and which members of it are most relevant to different components of human health and fitness.

davenport et al.

5center for microbiome innovation university of california san diego la jolla ca usa.referencesknight r callewaert c marotz c hyde er debelius jw mcdonald d et al.

20171865-86.bakken js borody t brandt lj brill jv demarco dc franzos ma et al.

201191044-9.mcfall-ngai m hadfield mg bosch tcg carey hv domazet-loso t douglas ae et al.

2002683401-7.durban a abellan jj jimenez-hernandez n ponce m ponce j sala t et al.

2012486207-14.moodley y linz b yamaoka y windsor hm breurec s wu j-y et al.

2009323527-30.odamaki t kato k sugahara h hashikura n takahashi s xiao j-z et al.

