metformin shifts gut microbiota composition through the enrichment of mucin-degrading a. muciniphila as well as several short- chain fatty acid-producing microbiota including butyrivibrio bifidobacterium bifidum megasphaera and prevotella 194. overall there is substantial evidence of the key role of microbiota in obesity and its adverse effects.microbiome and cardiovascular diseasesthe gut microbes produce a large range of metabolites which act not only in the gut but also systemically and this large pool of known and unknown metabolites is not fully understood 195. the metabolite trimethylamine n-oxide tmao is the first potentially direct link between the gut microbiota and atherosclerotic heart disease.

this is reflected in studies that have examined early-life stress 224225 prenatal stress 226227 and psychosocial stress 228-230. interestingly the gut microbiota seems necessary for the expression of some of the pathological behavioral features induced by maternal separation 231 a well validated early life stress based model of gut-brain axis dysfunction 232. in the clinical setting maternal prenatal stress is also associated with alterations in the infant gut microbiome 233. another example of such feedback loop is stress-related microbiome-gut-brain axis dysfunction in irritable bowel syndrome 234.thomas et al.page 19growing up germ-free influence biological function such as blood-brain barrier integrity 235 transcriptional regulation 203236 neurogenesis 237 microglial function 238 and myelination 239. recently it has been demonstrated that a germ-free mouse model of alzheimer's disease displayed a marked reduction of cerebral amyloid pathology and that colonization of these mice with the gut microbiota of their conventionally-colonised counterparts reinstated the amyloid pathology 240. although the behavioral implications of these altered amyloid phenotypes requires elaboration this intriguing study does provide support for the hypothesized role of the gut microbiota in neurodegenerative disorders 241.the mechanisms underpinning influence of the gut microbiome on brain and behavior are under investigation.

obese mice microbiota was found to be rich in firmicutes compared to the lean mice microbiota which was abundant in bacteroidetes 177. strikingly colonization of germ-free mice with microbiota from obese mice was sufficient to cause a significant increase in total body fat as compared to colonization with microbiota from lean mice 177. the obese microbiome has an increased capacity to harvest energy from the diet thereby increasing weight gain in the host 177178. colonization of adult germ-free mice with a gut microbial community harvested from conventionally raised mice increased body fat within 10-14 days despite an associated decrease in food consumption.

the use of these animals in general is not new but their application to cns- directed queries has been a notable feature of recent research efforts 201202. from a behavioral perspective these animals display a less-anxious phenotype 203-206 and this atypical performance can be normalized if the animals are colonized post-weaning 205. remarkably it has also been demonstrated using both the germ-free paradigm and anthomas et al.page 18antibiotic-induced microbiota deficiency that anxiety-like behaviors can be transferred via the gut microbiota by means of a fecal transplant 207208. germ-free animals also display alterations in social behaviors 209210 and insofar as it has been logistically possible to address in detail in this paradigm aspects of cognitive function 211. gut microbiota depletion using a cocktail of antibiotics from early adolescence in mice replicates many of the behavioral characteristics of germ-free mice including reduced anxiety-like behaviors and impaired cognitive performance 212.other approaches have both largely supported and extended the behavioral picture painted by microbiota-deficient animals.

these include microbial regulation of tryptophan metabolism 245 microbial metabolites such as short chain fatty acids scfa 246 or indoles derived from tryptophan 247 neuropeptide production 248 as well as immunomodulation 249. the important role of the gut microbiota in maintaining intestinal barrier integrity also needs to be taken in account 250251.the landscape for manipulating the microbiome is broad and increasingly financed 252. consideration are being given to priming interventions which promote assembly of the infant microbiome 65253254 sustain the gut microbiota in healthy aging 125126 more radical options such as fecal microbiota transplantation 255 as well as less controversial options such as psychobiotics 256 exercise 257258 and diet-based manipulations 259260. indeed a number of small studies using healthy volunteers have now demonstrated that ingestion of certain cocktails of probiotics a fermented milk product with probiotic or prebiotics can impact on the cns 261-264. autism spectrum disorders asd are complex neurobiological disorders characterized by impairment in social interaction and communication and restricted repetitive and stereotyped patterns of behavior interests and activities.

caloric restriction-induced changes in gut microbiota occur concomitantly with a significant reduction in serum levels of lipopolysaccharide- binding protein lps suggesting that animals undergoing calorie restriction establish a structurally balanced architecture of gut microbiota that exerts a health benefit through the reduction of antigen load from the gut.

butyrate has been found in many recent in vitro studies to be highly effective in inducing structural changes to the epithelial tj complex resulting in improved epithelial barrier function 322323. a similar literature also exists for the gi microbiota metabolite indole a product of tryptophan metabolism by commensal bacteria 324325. in combination the fecal transplant and butyrate enema clinical studies along with the in vitro studies of tj modification and enhancement by butyrate and indole provide a very powerful argument of not only maintenance and modification of the gi barrier by the microbiota but also for targeting the microbiota as a viable effective therapeutic strategy.better delineated proof of the ability of the microbiota to both positively and negatively affect the gi barrier comes out of animal model and epithelial cell culture studies.

it will be instructive to discover in future research whether the principal actions of dietnutrition environment are on microbiota directly and barrier function indirectly or vice versa.as more and more studies reveal the intricate interplay between gi barrier function gi microbiota and degree of inflammation it is worth considering that the effects of microbiota on barrier function - and barrier function on microbiota - will in large degree derive from actions of protein kinases in signaling pathway transduction systems.

autistic children suffer from gastrointestinal disorders.autistic children have less diverse microbial population in the gut and significantly lower abundances of the genera prevotella coprococcus and veillonellaceae involved in carbohydrate metabolism 265.future directions will likely see further elaboration of the role of the gut microbiome in sleep 266 and circadian rhythms 267-269. our awareness of the interface between natural and built environments the gut microbiota and human behavior is also growing 270-272. of course a key caveat is to what degree this promising but largely preclinical body of research will effectively impact the clinical setting.

3. these chronic insults ultimately increase host's risk for neoplastic transformation 388. indeed several factors that favor carcinogenesis similarly recapitulate dysbiosis.one well-studied model of the dysbiosiscancer connection is that of repeated intra- abdominal infections the use of antibiotics or both leading to an increased incidence of colorectal cancer 389. in several preclinical studies interventions that abrogate or directly alter gut microbiome composition increase the incidence and progression of colorectal carcinoma in both genetic and carcinogen-induced models of tumorigenesis 390-392.moreover several by-products of the gut microbiota directly target intestinal epithelial cells and either facilitate oncogenesis as reported for hydrogen sulfide and the bacteroides fragilis toxin or suppress tumorigenesis in the case of scfas 393. intestinal microbes have been characterized to participate in more than just colorectal carcinogenesis.experimental models of gut flora also elucidate the development of other extraintestinal cancers such as hepatocellular carcinoma 394395 presumably through systemically disseminated metabolic networks.

increased content of adherent-invasive e. coli decreased mucus layer protection and led to gi barrier compromise 331. pathogenic e. coli have been implicated in crohn's disease in part due to an ability to not produce cell death while inducing synthesis of copious amounts of tnf 332. the dietary connection to an altered microbiota in terms of pathogenic bacteria is also apparent in the finding that vitamin d deficiency enables the barrier disruptive effects of pathogenic e. coli to be manifested 333. even more fascinating and less intuitive is an effect of the environment at large on barrier function microbiota and inflammatory status as kish et al.

microglia from germ-free mice had altered gene expression that influenced its development 219.an increased availability of tryptophan - the amino acid precursor to neuroactives such as serotonin and kynurenine pathway catabolites as generated respectively by ido1 or tph - is one feature of the germ-free state 205220221. many aberrant physiological features can be rescued if the animals are colonized with a normal microbiota especially if this intervention takes place during specific time windows post weaning 205217. as is the case for behavior other microbiota manipulations such as rendering mice microbiota deficient or probiotic ingestion by rodents can also impact parameters such as corticosterone outputs or tryptophan availability 212213222.the reciprocal interaction between stress and the microbiome is a particularly interesting facet of this bidirectional relationship.

these findings highlight a very important consideration in studies of the microbiota barrier function and ibd - namely that not only can microbiota affect barrier function but modification of barrier function good and bad may well affect microbiota composition - a research road less traveled.

humans co-evolved with microbes in the environment and each body habitat has a unique set of microorganisms in its microbiota 1. the microbiome term coined by joshua lederberg consists of the ecological community of commensal symbiotic and pathogenic microorganisms that share our body 2. the host organism together with its microbiome constitutes the holobiont greek holos wholeentire and the totality of the genome is the hologenome 34. changes in the holobiont may impact the complex signaling network thereby influencing the hologenome leading to health or disease.the human body is estimated to be composed of 3 x 1013 eukaryotic cells and 3.9 x 1013 colonizing microorganisms such that host cells and microbiota are of nearly the same number in an individual 5. the largest concentrations of microbes occupy the gut skin and oral cavity.

c. cytosolic localization in murine colon muscularis processed as above.thomas et al.page 64figure 3. dysbiosis an immunocompromised state characterized by pathobiont colonization that leads to hyperinflammation dysplasia and tumorigenesisleft symbiosis a symbiotic gut microbiota operates under a functional intestinal epithelial cell iec barrier with steady state proportions of mucus pattern recognition receptors prrs antimicrobial peptides and secretory iga which in turn contain the microbiota in the intestinal lumen.

