furthermore it is not known if anupper reproductive tract microbiota could play a role in uterine- related diseases such as hysteromyoma adenomyosis and endometriosis.here we systematically sampled the microbiota at six sites within the female reproductive tract from a large cohort of chinese women of reproductive age.

article doi 10.1038s41467-017-00901-0openthe microbiota continuum along the female reproductive tract and its relation to uterine-related diseaseschen chen12 xiaolei song13 weixia wei45 huanzi zhong126 juanjuan dai45 zhou lan1 fei li123 xinlei yu12 qiang feng17 zirong wang1 hailiang xie1 xiaomin chen1 chunwei zeng1 bo wen12 liping zeng45 hui du45 huiru tang45 changlu xu18 yan xia13 huihua xia129 huanming yang110 jian wang110 jun wang111 lise madsen1612 susanne brix13 karsten kristiansen16 xun xu12 junhua li12914 ruifang wu45  huijue jia12911reports on bacteria detected in maternal fluids during pregnancy are typically associated with adverse consequences and whether the female reproductive tract harbours distinct microbial communities beyond the vagina has been a matter of debate.

here we systematically sample the microbiota within the female reproductive tract in 110 women of reproductive age and examine the nature of colonisation by 16s rrna gene amplicon sequencing and cultivation.

thus live bacteria do exist in the upper reproductive tract of which we succeeded in isolation of some using conventional culturing methods.signature species for each site of the reproductive tract.

supplementary data 11. altogether these results suggest that the composition of the vagino-uterine microbiota potentially could beafused to detect a number of ailments common to reproductive age women.functional inferences of the reproductive tract microbiota.

we also showed that microbiota at the upper reproductive tract can be available through laparoscopy with minimal artificial effects and contaminations laying the basis for the usage of this sampling route in subsequent studies.we find that both the upper and the lower reproductive tract are home for facultative anaerobes and aerobes in contrast to the situation in bacterial vaginosis and more recently also reported in endometrial cancer supplementary table 5 represented by overgrowth with obligate anaerobes being linked to adverseoutcomes such as pre-term birth and sexually transmitted dis- eases  .

the results reflect a microbiota continuum along the female reproductive tract indicative of a non-sterile environment.

the study provides insight into the nature of the vagino-uterine microbiome and suggests that sur- veying the vaginal or cervical microbiota might be useful for detection of common diseases in the upper reproductive tract.1 bgi-shenzhen shenzhen 518083 china.

email n marsupials and placental mammals the female reproductive tract has developed unique structures such as the vagina and the uterus.

during the reproductive cycle mature oocytes from the ovaries enter the peritoneal cavity to be captured by fimbriae of the fallopian tubes.

alterations in the vaginal microbiota play a role in common conditions such as bacterial vaginosis sexually transmitted diseases urinary infections and preterm birth  .in contrast the upper reproductive tract remains largely unexplored.

it is as yet not clear what type of bacteria if any may exist in the upper reproductive tract of the vast majority of women who are not in periods of infection or pregnancy.

to explore the microbiota beyond the vagina we collected samples from six locations cl lower third of vagina cu posterior fornix cv cervical mucus drawn from the cervical canal et endometrium fll and frl left and right fallopian tubes pf peritoneal fluid from the pouch of douglas throughout the female reproductive tract from an initial study cohort of 95 chinese women submitted to surgery for conditions not known to involve infections fig.

these conditions included hyster- omyoma also known as uterine fibroids adenomyosis endometriosis and salpingemphraxis which are to our knowledge the best proxies for the upper reproductive tract in healthy young women supplementary data 1. samples from the vagina and the cervical mucus cl cu cv were taken upon visit to the clinic without any prior disturbance.

1. the samples were subjected to 16s rrna gene ampliconsequencing quality-controlled and clustered into operational taxonomic units otus supplementary data 2 3.the lower cl cu cv and upper et fl pf reproductive tract samples separated when subjected to principal coordinate analyses pcoa based on weighted and unweighted unifrac distances fig.

