due to these mechanisms of treg lymphocytes a human does not de- velop hypersensitivity to food allergens 15. it should be pointed out that functions of treg lymphocytes are much limited in infancy and early childhood in comparison to adulthood 16-18.immunomodulatory factorsmicrobiomechanges in the microbiome are one of the most cru- cial factors which determine development of allergic dis- eases 19. in the foetal period contact with pathogenic and non-pathogenic metabolites of microorganisms in the gut-associated lymphoid tissue galt colonizing the gastrointestinal tract might prevent allergic diseases in offspring 20 21. it was confirmed that pregnant women living in rural areas have a greater number of treg cells through increased dna methylation in the treg-specific differentially methylated region tsdr which decreases the risk of allergic diseases in their offspring 22. the same effects were observed in children who stayed in a close contact with farm animals.

bearing in mind the relationship between micro- biome and development of allergy scientists have been conducting studies on the effect of probiotics since the 1990s 34 35. the first report presented by majama and isolauri showed a reduction of atopic dermatitis in chil- dren after 1-month supplementation with lactobacillus rhamnosus 36. studies conducted in 2007 in italy on 187 kindergarten children with asthma and allergic rhinitis revealed a positive correlation with longer remission pe- riods in those children who consumed milk with lactoba- cillus casei rather than in those who were administered placebo 37. bjorksten et al.

also noticed that supplementation with lactobacillus gg in breastfeeding mothers and in infants up to the 6th month of life had a beneficial effect on the prevention of atopy reduction of asthma and eczema in high-risk children in comparison with the placebo group 41. similar studies conducted in 2001-2009 revealed that consumption of probiotics by pregnant women and infants prevents 2-7 year-old children from developing atopic dermatitis 42. kukkonen et al.

he discovered that children of those women less frequently developed ige-dependent eczema than children from the control group 82. a similar study was conducted in australia.

revealed that a diet rich in omega-3 acids ap- plied in asthmatic children reduces the severity of the disease 84 although in his study he included children whose exposure to inhaled allergens and applied diet was closely controlled.

review paperthe influence of dietary immunomodulatory factors on development of food allergy in childrenizabela sardecka1 aneta krogulska2 ewa toporowska-kowalska11department of paediatric allergology gastroenterology and nutrition 3rd chair of paediatrics medical university of lodz lodz poland 2department of paediatry allergology and gastroenterology ludwik rydygier collegium medicum in bydgoszcz nicolaus copernicus university in torun polandadv dermatol allergol 2017 xxxiv 2 89-96 doi httpsdoi.org10.5114pdia.2016.63955abstract in the last few years many studies have been conducted on the role of dietary and environmental factors in the prevention of allergic diseases among children.

results of gabriela or parsifal studies unambiguously indicate that the risk of atopy or asthma in later life was much lower in chil- dren exposed to environmental microorganisms than in children who were raised in cities 23 24.dieta diet is another factor which is becoming more and more crucial for development of allergic diseases.

consumption of food products such as milk wheat and peanuts by pregnant women in their early pregnancy reduced the risk of asthma and allergy in their offspring 28. results of an extensive ran- domized clinical study called learning early about peanut allergy leap confirmed that early and systematic con- sumption of peanuts significantly decreased the risk of the development of asthma and allergy in children from a high-risk group evaluated in their fifth year of life 29. it is still unknown whether early introduction in the 3rd month of life of alimentary products such as milk eggs fish wheat sesame peanuts into infants' diet accom- panied by breastfeeding in comparison to late introduc- tion in the 6th month of life of the above products has any impact on the development of food allergy asthma atopic dermatitis allergic rhinitis in the 3rd month of life.

the probiotics did not appear to preventige-dependent diseases in children up to two years old but they were proved to significantly decrease the risk of atopic dermatitis 43. results of studies on a relationship between probiotics and development of allergic diseases are often contradictory.

observed that supple- mentation with lactobacillus gg in pregnant women and infants did not result in a decreased number of atopic cases and episodes of allergic exacerbation in children.

this kind of diet helped to reduce the in- cidence of asthma and other allergic diseases in early childhood 79-81. children who consumed fish at least twice a week less frequently demonstrated episodes of bronchial hyperreactivity 79. furuhjelm et al.

yet this fact did not have im- plications on the asthma severity in those children 85. it seems that different observations with regard to the protective properties of omega-3 acids and occurrence or development of allergic diseases might result from dif- ferent doses of fatty acids administered in the studies.

due to different results of the application of n-3 pufa in pregnant women and later in their children we should conduct further studies in order to evaluate their potential protective properties for allergic diseases 86 87.short-chain fatty acidsthe scfas are divided to exogenous and endogenous ones.

a randomized prospec- tive double blind controlled trial on effects of long-term con- sumption of fermented milk containing lactobacillus casei in pre-school children with allergic asthma andor rhinitis.

the intestinal microflora in allergic estonian and swedish 2-year-old children.

