meanwhile lack of this special gut microbiota component in western cohorts is linked with low consumption of resistant starch and growth of food industrialization in the west vs. developing countries .the resemblance between the gut microbiota of russian city populations and inhabitants of western cities are maybe associated with western lifestyle higher social standards and food habits which is especially reflected in the diet in the form of processed food and high consumption of meat products 5.it is amazing to declare that the effect of aging on the gut microbiota composition of europeans was country- specific.

thereby dysbiosis of healthy gut microbiota results in deterioration of this mutualistic relationship and causes many diseases like obesity metabolic syndrome type 1 diabetes type 2 diabetes inflammatory bowel disease irritable bowel syndrome colorectal cancer and celiac disease 23.it is critical to note that gut microbiota composition is different and distinct in people from developed and developing countries and may be responsible for the conundrum of reduced vaccine efficacy in developing countries.

although each individual's microbial profile is unique the relative abundance and distribution of microbial species is similar among the healthy resulting in the preservation of one's overall health 1. there is a strongly mutualistic relationship between gut microbiota and human.

the specific characteristics of the gut microbiota are likely associated with cultural habits host diet and socioeconomic status 3. recentlyreceived 15 january 2017 accepted 27 february 2017 reprint or correspondence sama rezasoltani phds.

1basic and molecular epidemiology of gastrointestinal disorders research center shahid beheshti university of medical sciences tehran iran.e-mail researchers debate that geography is the most powerful predictor of the gut microbiota compound.

differentiation in gut microbiota composition has been depicted in african united states european and amerindian populations 4. it is demonstrated that gut flora composition is different between urban and rural populations for example communities from multiple rural zones in russia showed similarities within each zone and are dominated by novel community firmicutes and actinobacteria that is related to the healthy gut.

long-term diet was discovered to be one of the important factors linked to gut microbiota composition.

high consumption of starch-rich potatoes and bread that are main staple foods and natural products in rural russian communities which are accessible even to low-income socioeconomic individuals creates this distinction in gut microbiota composition.

in one study the composition of the japanese gut microbiome was shown more abundant in the phylum actinobacteria especially in the genus bifidobacterium compared to other nations 7.another study addressed the gut microbiota composition in five countries spanning temperate and tropical areas of asia.

moreover interventional procedures are necessary to manipulate microbiota composition by probiotics andor prebiotics and fecal transplantation as a realistic therapeutic strategy for several infectious inflammatory and other disorders these initiative require facilities such as appropriate high-throughput sequencing facility and appropriate protocol for analysis.

intestinal microbiota as modulators of the immune system and neuroimmune systemimpact on the host health and homeostasis.

the role of natural microbiota in a vaccine-induced immunity.

differences in fecal microbiota in different european study populations in relation to age gender and country  a cross-sectional study.

human gut microbiota community structures in urban and rural populations in russia.

