However this conceptual framework has shifted from the simple notion that the normal intestinal microbiota provide a mass effect to exclude transient pathogens competitively to one in which the intestinal microbiome is engaged actively with the host through receptors on the lining of the intestinal epithelia that communicate via dendritic cells with elements of the systemic immune system and provide health-promoting influences on overall host health maintenance14.

Although the science behind this notion is in its early descriptive phase there is a growing body of literature to substantiate that patients who are critically ill823 and those undergoing bone marrow and stem cell transplantation24 recover in association with re-establishment of the intestinal microbiome.Microbiota are key participants in the gut-lung gut-liver gut-brain and gut-wound axisAs discussed the intestinal microbiome may have positive influences on the healing of remote tissues via its inter- action with the intestinal epithelium which can engage and activate downstream signals of the immune system14.

It is possible that the adverse consequences of loss of the intestinal microbial consortia and their exoproducts following surgical injury results in loss of host resilience mechanisms that are driven by loss of tonic stimulation of the immune system by the colonizing microbiota Figs 12.Several studies have now documented that loss of the intestinal microbial consortia and their exoproducts can occur within as little as 6 h following a sudden insult2021.

In this regard the complex bioreactor of microbial cells within the gut is likely to play a significant role.Role of nutrition to modify recovery after surgeryIn the absence of significant knowledge and consideration of the role of the intestinal microbiome to modify and be modified by foodstuffs as they pass through the intestinal bioreactor surgeons have over the years attempted to mod- ify the metabolic response to injury with nutrients.

NIH RO1 5R01GMO62344-15.Disclosure The authors declare no conflict of interest.ReferencesKronsteiner B Bassaganya-Riera J Philipson CViladomiu M Carbo A Abedi V et al.

Prostaglandins 1977 14 333- 341.Mayo SA Song YK Cruz MR Phan TM Singh KV Garsin DA et al.

Physiol Rep 2016 4 e12725.Zwolinska-Wcislo M Krzysiek-Maczka G Ptak-Belowska A Karczewska E Pajdo R Sliwowski Z et al.

Shock 2016 45 475- 482.Gilbert JA Quinn RA Debelius J Xu ZZ Morton J Garg N et al.

Annu Rev Mar Sci 2011 3 347- 371.Lax S Smith DP Hampton-Marcell J Owens SM Handley KM Scott NM et al.

Science 2014 345 1048- 1052.Shogan BD Belogortseva N Luong PM Zaborin A Lax S Bethel C et al.

