In this review we present recent advances in understanding of the intricate role of microbiome in modulating efficacy of a number of anti-cancer treatments and discuss how anti-cancer treatment approaches utilizing the tumor microbiome may enhance oncological treatment efficacy.IntroductionThe microbiome in cancerCancer treatment has matured over the past few decades to include a number of treatment modalities such as surgery chemotherapy radiotherapy immunotherapy and hormonal therapy .

In colon adenocarcinoma F. nucleatum inhibits NK cell cytotoxicity and T cell activity thereby limiting their ability to kill tumor cells .The microbiome in anti-cancer therapyThe microbiome has been suggested to play an intricate role in modulating the efficacy of a number of anti-cancer therapeutic approaches .

used subcutaneously injected melanoma cells in genetically identical C57BL6 mice derived from two different facilities harboring different gut microbiome configurations and de- monstrated differential tumor growth rate and intra-tumoral CD8 T cell infiltration to be influenced by the gut microbiome in these settings .

BAGE-1 Cyclin-A1 and LY6K produced by cancer cells induce an immune response during which T cells eliminate cancer cells .

Irradiation up-regulates CD80 expression through two different mechanisms in spleen B cells B lymphoma cells anddendritic cells Immunology 112 2 2004 219-227 S.Z.

ReviewThe microbiome in anti-cancer therapyStavros Bashiardes Timur Tuganbaev Sara Federici Eran ElinavImmunology Department Weizmann Institute of Science 76100 Rehovot IsraelA R T I C L E I N F O KeywordsCancerAnti-cancer treatment EfficacyMicrobiomeA B S T R A C T The commensal microbiome constitutes an important modulator of host physiology and risk of disease including cancer development and progression.

Additionally the microbiome colonizes other mucosal surfaces including lungs vagina gut and oral cavity where it plays Corresponding author.E-mail address E. Elinav.1 Equal Contribution.Received 31 December 2016 Received in revised form 21 March 2017 Accepted 5 April 20171044-5323c2017ElsevierLtd.Allrightsreserved.organ and context specific physiological functions .The microbiome has also been suggested to colonize tumors .

In this review we focus on the effects the microbiome has on the efficacy of a number of anti-cancer treatment strategies including immunotherapy  chemotherapy and adoptive cell transfer therapy  and the potential mechanisms and ramifications of these effects.The microbiome and cancer immunityImmune system - cancer interactions play important roles in cancer prevention development and progression and are reviewed in depth elsewhere .

wound infection during surgery  or bacterial translocation from the gut lumen upon disruption of the gastrointestinal epithelial barrier .Some indications suggest that an intricate interaction exists between the 'tumor microbiome' and local tumor immunity as exemplified by Fusobacterium nucleatum an oral microbiome commensal linked to a number of pathogenic conditions including colon adenocar- cinoma .

Further fundamental and clinical studies are needed to optimize these microbiome-associated immunomodulatory capabilities in enhancing ACT efficiency.Other microbiome effectsSome recent works suggest that in some cases the microbiome may adversely affect anticancer drug stability and half-life by modifying or degrading chemotherapeutic agents .

