notably our data evoke several interesting questions and areas of future study including what are the bidirectional interactions between altered microbiome and altered immune responsiveness under tn housing does tn housing alter the immune response in gnotobiotic mice can protectionfrom hfd-driven obesity in germ-free mice51 be reversed utilizing tn housing are levelsof specific microbial byproducts or microbial species thought to play a role in obesity- associated inflammation and nafld altered at tn1152giles et al.page 11our data suggest that tlr4 signaling presumably via gram-negative microbiome dysbiosis plays a role in tn-driven nafld pathogenesis.

the ability of tn housing to promote development of robust obesity and nafld in female mice further supports the relevance of tn housing to human physiology and allows for the realization of novel pathways associated with protection from hfd-driven obesity in female mice.importantly tn housing may allow for improved modeling of the contribution of maternal obesity on disease pathogenesis over generations of offspring.

in sum these results suggest that ambient temperature profoundly alters bat function glucocorticoid production and the host innate immune responses in male c57bl6 mice and are congruent with reports indicating that tn housing promotes a more human- like immune response20.tn housing exacerbates hfd-driven nafld pathogenesisas the immune system plays a central role in the pathogenesis of obesity-associated sequelae we hypothesized that tn housing compared to ts housing would exacerbate such effects in male c57bl6 wt mice.

while previous reports have demonstrated that housing mice at a thermoneutral temperature tn 30degc affects the pathogenesis of multiple infectious and metabolic complications whether tn housing allows for an improved mouse nafld model has not been previously interrogated.giles et al.page 10here we demonstrate in accordance with previous reports that the cold stress associated with standard mouse housing procedures inhibits immune responses14.

these data agree with previous reports describing the role of tn housing in modulation of glucose metabolism and insulin resistance in obesity24.the impact of tn housing on nafld development and progression was examined next.

further comparison of hepatic gene expression changes induced by tn versus ts housing on hfd to known gene expression changes induced by human nash40 revealed that tn drove similar changes in expression of genes associated with a variety of nafld-related pathways e.g.

4j-k. together these data indicate that the effects of tn housing on nafld pathogenesis are conserved across different mouse strains and suggest that the use of obese akr mice at tn may provide a novel and accelerated model for mechanistic interrogation of nafld-induced hepatic fibrosis.adrenal glands are a central production site of circulating corticosterone and catecholamines.

l schematic diagram depicting the role of tn housing in promoting exacerbated nafldpathogenesis during hfd feeding where red lines represent factors associated withexacerbated nafld at tn apc - antigen presenting cells nafl - nonalcoholic fatty liver.

thus given its role in both metabolism and inflammation we hypothesized that tn housing would allow for development of an improved exacerbated and more human-like mouse model of nafld.tn housing alters bat function and immune responsivenessadaptation to cold stress involves among other things heightened brown adipose tissue bat activity energy expenditure and glucocorticoid production28.

further compared to ts housing tn housing resulted in lower serum concentrations of corticosterone an immunosuppressive glucocorticoid30 and splenic expression of genes known to inhibit inflammatory responses including gr beta 2 adrenergic receptor b2ar adrb2 catecholamine receptor ppargc1a and uncoupling protein 2 ucp231 fig.

1a-d. these findings indicate tn housing reverses the inhibition of immune responsiveness seen under standard housing conditions.the anti-inflammatory effects of glucocorticoids and corticosterone are well established.

importantly unlike in c57bl6 mice hfd feeding under conditions of tn housing but not ts housing was sufficient to induce fibrosis in akr mice as quantified by hepatic gene expression and trichrome staining supplementary fig.

further tn housing compared to ts housing changed intestinal microbiome in as little as 2 weeks prior to being placed on hfd supplementary fig.

6e-k. notably tn housing enriched the representation of bacteroidetes while ts housing preferentially enriched for firmicutes.

rnaseq analysis of pbmcs from wt c57bl6 mice provided initial suggestions that tn housing compared to ts housing coupled with hfd resulted in greater expression of genes related to il-17 production fig.

