patients exhibited a wide of range of sinus microbiota profiles prior to treatment with highly individual-specific microbiota changes after max- imal medical therapy.

curr allergy asthma rep 2017 17 59 doi 10.1007s11882-017-0726-xtherapy of sinonasal microbiome in crs a critical approachalkis j. psaltis1  peter-john wormald1published online 7 august 2017 springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstractpurpose of review perturbations in local microbiota have been demonstrated in many chronic inflammatory diseases including chronic rhinosinusitis crs.

to date nine ngs studies have evaluated the microbiome in healthy control patients   -.despite attempts by such studies to define the microbial differences in health compared to disease a universal consen- sus of what constitutes a health sinus microbiota has not been achieved.

from their findings they concluded that neither nasal saline irrigation or intranasal corticosteroids sprays resulted in a significant alteration in the sinoasal microbiome of crswnp patients although in controls intra- nasal budesonide use did appear to be associated with a dis- tinct sinonasal microbiota.the effect of sinus surgery on the sinonasal microbiota has also been examined prospectively.

this study aims to better clarify the core microbiome in health and evaluate how geographical host and disease-related factors can influ- ence the microbiota in crs patients.probiotics although attractive in theory require significantly more research before becoming a viable option.

the purpose of this paper is to review the latest microbiome research as it pertains to crs and establish whether there is any evidence supporting the microbiome hypothesis for crs.

although probiotic therapies show early prom- ise much larger studies are required to establish their real role as a treatment for crs.keywords microbiota .

advances in culture independent de- tection techniques have allowed us to better characterize and evaluate the local microbiota at all human surfaces.

the mi- crobiota is a significant source of both nutritional metabolites and inflammatory immune signals and therefore it is pro- posed that alterations in microbiota may affect the human host .

evidence now exists that many chronic inflammatory dis- eases are indeed associated with significant shifts in the local microbiota towards inflammatory configurations .

furthermore they observed that an absence of burkholderia and propionibacterium phylotypes from the healthy communi- ty dataset was correlated with a significant increase in network fragmentation suggesting a gate-keeper role of these phyla in sinonasal microbiota homeostasis.

1 unpublished data demonstrating graphical comparison of microbiota from six different international centres comparing controls vs crs patients.

coloured bars represent the relative abundance of asingle species as a percentage of the total microbiota.

there appeared to be no convergence of the sinus microbiota in response to antibiotics or corticoste- roids.

compared the sinus microbiota of patients undergoing surgery for crs to non-crs patients undergoing transphenoidal pituitary surgery .

