i had no idea that this project would go this far he says adding that his interest lies in formulating new hypotheses rather than in toxicity screening and troubleshooting manufacturing processes.sapience knows what they are doing says angelastro.

therapeutic developments masters of medicinedrawingon the latest research companies are developing more-effective therapies.antheialab-made opioidsstanford university californiaews about opioids usually revolves around crime addiction and death.overdoses of drugs such as heroin and oxycodone killed more than 28000 peo- ple in the united states in 2014. and in europe 70 of people who seek treatment for addiction are dependent on opioids.what these headlines obscure is the value of the drugs in relieving pain caused by childbirth and surgery or conditions such as cancer and heart disease says synthetic biol- ogist christina smolke at stanford univer- sity in california.

there is a need for a technology to reduce the cost and reduce the barriers to access says smolke.smolke is also chief executive of antheia the start-up she co-founded to develop a less-expensive and perhaps less-addictive supply of these drugs.

this is a platform that is intrinsically scalable and accessible to people around the globe says smolke.

benzylisoquinoline alkaloids -- the group of compounds that includes opioids -- have lots of chirality says smolke.

and smolke says that she and the editors at science wanted to make sure they weren't publishing something dangerous -- a recipe for potential morphine home brewers.the researchers had estimated that they would need to improve the process's overall yield by around 7-million-fold to feasibly convert sugar to morphine.

i believe very strongly in our mis- sion she says.

if you don'tget the balance right he says the enzymes themselves can be toxic.remaking the drug industryif it seems that antheia is starting with the most difficult problem possible it is to some extent by design.

as we work withthis extremely complex case we're build- ing out our know-how smolke says.

opioids are the classic case of how nature can be an unstable source of a compound that's medically critical and chemically difficult she says.

you can go from one drug to the next without a big shift says keasling.

we have the scaffold for bioactivity now can we push for better profiles smolke asks.that's the right question says keasling.

that's been the vision of the field for a long time but it's a long vision.keasling's artemisinic-acid pathway was published in 2006 the semisynthetic drug went on the market in 2013.it's very challenging to tackle all of this at once especially as a start-up says smolke.

oxstem launched last year with first-round funding of ps16.9 million us21.1 million-- which the company says is a record for a uk academic start-up.

years ago we developed a technology that allows you to stabilize undifferentiated cells and grow them up in culture russell says.

