nonetheless determining the impact that helminths exert on the alpha diversity of the gut microbiota of species of veterinary interest and particularly on that of livestock is of paramount importance as the gut metabolism of these species and conse- quently their productivity is greatly dependent on the maintenance of a 'healthy' commensal flora.helminth-associated alterations in host metabolism several studies have examined the functional effects of helminth infection on host metabolism  either directly by evaluating differences in levels of faecal metabolites in infected versus uninfected hosts  or indirectly by inferring helminth-associated changes in host metabolism based on expansion or reduction of selected bacterial pop- ulations in response to parasite infection .

given that mice are in principle a veterinary species and that mouse models of infection are often used in veterinary research  data available for these hosts will be considered here alongside those from other animal species.matter of animal and helminth speciescurrent studies of helminth-microbiota interactions in veterinary species involve a range of animals and parasites and are characterised by a vast heterogeneity in experimental designs and techniques which taken together lead to a variety of findings .

8table 1. a summary of currently available studies on host-helminth-microbiota interactions in veterinary species including study design microbiota profiling techniques and principal findings.table 1. continuedan  nematode t  trematode c  cestode.the impact of helminth infections on microbial richness and diversity alpha diversity is defined as the mean species diversity within a population of microbes and it is dependent on both microbial richness i.e.

future studies should further explore the potential use of bifidobacterium and other probiotics to improve host response to helminth infections in veterinary species .unlike probiotics prebiotics are dietary supplements composed of nondigestible plant fibres which promote the growth of resident gut microbes .

indeed whilst knowledge to date suggests that the manipulation of the gut microbiota has the potential to make both war and peace with helminth infections in veterinary species more studies are needed in order to make the most of this potentially powerful tool see outstanding questions.acknowledgmentsfunding from the horserace betting levy board thoroughbred breeders' association and british european breeders fund lep and the biotechnology and biological sciences research council uk tpj is gratefully acknowledged.

by contrast evidence for an active role of the host in inducing changes in the gut microbiota following helminth infection has been provided by observations that successful host responses to helminth infection are linked to increased production of amps such as lysozymes in cattle and angiogenin 4 in mice  albeit it was suggested that these responses may represent a downstream effect of th2-mediated immunity .

given the production losses and the considerable morbidity and mortality associated with a range of helminth diseases in livestock  as well as the global threat of emerging anthelmintic resistance  the exploration of the complexities of host-helminth-microbiota interactions in species of veterinary interest is timely and relevant.

unlike for the lactobacillaceae knowledge of the impact of gi helminth infections on populations of other microbes is inconsistent being largely dependent on species of hosts and parasites under consideration.

secondly the current literature is characterised by a heterogeneity of experimental designs which span beside host and helminth species time and location of sampling and techniques used to characterise changes in the microbiota and .

despite this information the exploration of the effects that parasite infections exert on populations of commensal gut microbes of veterinary species is a field of research in its infancy.

in spite of these variations a small number of specific changes in the composition of the host gut microbiota have been consistently observed in helminth-infected animals irrespective of host and para- site species.

given the global threat of anthelmintic resistance worldwide strategic manipulation of diet in combination with good management practices could represent the future of parasite control in production animals in a post-anthelmintics era.final considerations and future directionsthe exploration of the mechanisms that govern the interactions between parasitic helminths and the gut microbiota in veterinary species has a number of implications for translational research in this field.

increasing evidence particularly in humans and rodent models of helminth infection points towards a multitude of interactions occurring between parasites and the gut microbiota with a profound impact on both host immunity and metabolic potential.

3 helminth excretorysecretory products es induce shifts in the composition of the gut microbiota.microbiota the es products of h. polygyrus are known to contain lysozymes which could plausibly have an effect on the gi microbiota .

short-chain fatty acids scfas or lactic acids las leading to a decrease in gut ph and helminth death and expulsion.

