even though these results show beneficial effects of gln on the intestinal morphology and physiology additional work is needed to evaluate its effects on the intestinal immune system and microbial structure.final considerationsalthough the interactions between commensal bacte- ria and host immune system are not fully understood the intestinal immune system is responsible for ini- tiating and propagating responses to commensal and pathogenic microorganisms.

this increased metabolic activity due to the activation of the immune system may be responsible for the impaired growth performance that is often observed during peri- ods of intestinal challenge.in coordination with the intestinal mucosa the in- testinal microbiota are responsible for the first line of defense in an animal and work by regulating cellular permeability altering the expression of genes in goblet cells for increased mucus production and stimulating secretion of antimicrobial peptides laparra and sanz .

the intestinal mucosal layer is a key component of the innate immune response and the development of the immune system of the bird varies according to age and section of intestine which appears to be faster in proximal than in distal intestinal segments zhang et al.

as described by fernando and mccraw  this turnover rate increases consider- ably during an intestinal challenge but the magnitude and duration of this response varies among intestinal regions and regionality of challenge.

as the timing of altered amino acid needs during intesti- nal infections becomes better defined specialized diets could potentially be matched with the pattern of disease progression in the field to provide intestinal support to broilers when they are most susceptible.according to wu  dietary amino acids pro- mote intestinal repair through induction of enzymes needed for the mitotic process such as ornithine- decarboxylase required for the synthesis of polyamines as well as through altering the expression of genes in- volved in anti-inflammatory and reparative processes.

showed that the supplementation with dietary gln improved intestinal barrier function thereby pre- venting the increase in the intestinal permeability and limiting the bacterial translocation induced by the heat stress.

these findings indicate that gln not only plays a role on the intestinal barrier but also may affect the intestinal bacteria community through its ef- fect on no synthesis.gln supplementation of 1 to the diet did not de- crease salmonella typhimurium shedding in broiler chickens even though it improved bw gain fasina et al.

2012. re- modeling the intestinal ecosystem toward better performance and intestinal health.

non-invited reviewthreonine arginine and glutamine influences on intestinal physiology immunology and microbiology in broilersc.

modern commercial in- tensive practices impose a high sanitary pressure that may exacerbate the progression of intestinal diseases such as coccidiosis and necrotic enteritis.

for this reason altering dietary concentrations of some aminoacids particularly trophic amino acids may be bene- ficial to modulate the intestinal physiology immunol- ogy and microbiology of broilers.

trophic amino acids such as threonine arginine and glutamine play a very important role on the intestinal mucosa and may sup- port increased epithelial turnover rates to improve in- testinal recovery following an insult.

furthermore these amino acids may help to minimize over-activation of the innate immune system which is the most expen- sive in terms of nutrients and energy as well as mod- ulate the intestinal microbiota.

even though the intestinal tissue represents only about 5 of the body weight it consumes 15 to 30 of the o2 and proteins in a live organism gask- ins  and 20 of the energy mcbride and kelly  due to its rapid turnover rate and intense cel- lular metabolic activity.

thus nutritional needs of the intestine must be considered when attempting to opti- mize nutrient delivery to broilers raised under different sanitary environments as the intestine may have in-qc 2017 poultry science association inc. received july 14 2017.accepted november 17 2017.1corresponding author 937creased nutritional requirements to maintain its cellular proliferation.an intact intestinal mucosa protects the animal against the uptake of toxic substances present in the feed as well as from invasion by pathogenic microorgan- isms and the antigens they secrete.

