cell host  microbepreviewsthrough the scope darklythe gut mycobiome comes into focusnydiaris herna' ndez-santosand bruce s. klein1department of pediatrics2department of internal medicine3department of medical microbiology and immunologyschool of medicine and public health university of wisconsin-madison madison wi 53792 usacorrespondence the gut microbiome is comprised of microbes from multiple kingdoms including bacteria but also fungi viruses and perhaps other agents.

but recent studies in mice and humans have highlighted the key role of fungi in intestinal homeostasis and sys- temic immunity   making it difficult to ignore the contribution of fungi to the global effects of the microbiome in health and disease.in this issue of cell host  microbe demonstrate that inmice treated with broad-spectrum antibi- otics and thus depleted of commensal bacteria monocolonization with either candida albicans or saccharomyces cer- evisiae protects mice from dextran sulfate sodium dss-induced colitis.

albicans in the gut to establish lung antiviral immunity unraveling the mecha- nisms by which fungal structural elements and perhaps metabolites confer pro- tective immunity both locally and in ex- tra-intestinal sites such as the lung is of paramount importance particularly in the context of broad spectrum antibiotic treatment.the current study represents an impor- tant advance in our understanding of the contribution of fungi to gut health and to the establishment of effective antimicro- bial immunity in distal organs such as the lung.

in this issue of cell host  microbe reveal that fungal monocolonization after antibiotic-mediated depletion of intestinal bacteria prevents colitis and influenza thus highlighting beneficial roles of fungi.the bacterial microbiome--predomi- nantly the bacterial communities in the gut--has captured the attention of the scientific community for decades.

ligation of nucleotide-binding olig- omerization domain nod-like receptors and toll-like receptors tlrs by gut bacteria promotes innate and adaptive728 cell host  microbe 22 december 13 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc.cell host  microbepreviewsnication between the gut and other pe- ripheral organs and yields an incomplete picture of the contribution of microbes to health and disease.acknowledgmentsthe authors are supported by burroughs well- come fund grant 1016190 n.h.s.

these observations prompt questions such as ''how do fungi that inhabit the in- testine affect bacterial metabolism'' and ''what are the fungal structural compo- nents andor metabolites that themselves serve as liaisons of communication be- tween the gut and the lung''took a step in this di- rection by identifying mannan as the fungal cell wall component responsible for the protective effect of c. albicans colonization against colitis and influenza infection.

therefore fungi replaced bacteria in averting colitis induced by epithelial cell damage .these findings support recent studies demonstrating that the inability to recog- nize molecular patterns in the fungal cell wall exacerbates dss-induced colitis.

what host and mi- crobial elements establish communica- tion between the gut and the lung it has been shown that migrating immune cells and bacterial ligands and metabolites such as lipopolysaccharide lps poly- saccharide a psa and short-chain fatty acids scfas play an important role in facilitating communication in the ''gut- lung axis'' .

gut commensal bacteria are extremely benefi- cial to human health facilitating nutrient metabolism and colonization resistance promoting epithelial cell integrity and im- mune system development and positively influencing immune responses to patho- gens in extra-intestinal organs such as the lung .

regardless of the cause of exacerbated disease it is clear that fungi are a key component of intestinal health and thus should be included in efforts to fully understand the microbiome.

ignoring fungi in microbiome studies robs the sci- entific community of the opportunity to discover microbial compounds that aid in establishing beneficial lines of commu- .

however bacteria are not the only microorganisms inhabiting mucosal surfaces fungi and viruses occupy the same niches and have also been demonstrated to be crucial in maintaining intestinal homeostasis and promoting systemic immunity.

in fact conducting a pubmed search using either mycobiome fungal microbiome or microbiome as input yields 142 and 37452 results respectively.

mecha- nistically bacterial metabolites promote production of the immunosuppressive cytokine il-10 and regulatory t cell re- sponses that alleviate allergic airway dis- ease.

this protective effect required candida cell wall mannan and host tlr4.

