2017 figure 2. with respect to the tick innate immune responsephagocytophilum subverts tick rnai by mechanisms other than reduction of tudor staphylococcal nuclease tudor-sn levels to preserve a protein that is important for tick feeding ayllon et al.

identification of interactions that promote tick survival spread and pathogen transmission provides the opportunity to disrupt these interactions and lead to a reduction in tick burden and the prevalence of tick-borne diseases.

2000 box 1. these genetic determinants affect traits such as tick host preferences duration of tick attachment tick-host-pathogen and microbiome-pathogen interactions and susceptibility to pathogen infection ramamoorthi et al.

2016. together with tools such as tick cell lines and the widespread adaptation of rna interference rnai to study tick gene function bell- sakyi et al.

2015. in the absence of transovarial passage ticks must acquire infection in each generation during a bloodmeal.phagocytophilum initially infects tick midgut cells and then subsequently develops in the salivary glands for transmission to susceptible hosts during tick feeding.

2013. in the tick spirochetes colonize the midgut and then traverse into the hemocoel and migrate to salivary glands for transmission during tick feeding pal et al.

2012. ticks become infected with babesia parasites when ingesting blood cells containing piroplasms which develop into male and female gametes in the tick midgut uilenberg 2006. the zygotes then multiply and invade numerous tick organs including the ovaries which results in transovarial passage for some species such asb.

the type iv secretion system t4ss was proposed to be involved in the secretion of hsp70 and themsp4 interaction with tick cells may induce the secretion of vesicles at the phagocytic cup to aid in adhesin secretion for rickettsial infection of tick cells villar et al.

2013. an important protein involved in spirochete colonization of the tick midgut is the outer surface protein a ospa which binds to the tick receptor for ospa trospa pal et al.

2004. an i. scapularis dystroglycan like protein isdlp as well as a tick receptor for the b. burgdorferi protein bbe31 tre31 help spirochetes traverse from the tick midgut into the hemocoel zhang l. et al.

burgdorferi outer surface protein c ospc produced when bacteria leave the tick midgut binds to tick salivary protein 15 salp15 ramamoorthi et al.

tick cells respond to infection via activation of the extrinsic apoptosis pathway which limits a. phagocytophilum infection and promotes tick survival ayllon et al.

additionally a. phagocytophilum may benefit from the tick cells ability to limit pathogen infection through phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase pepck inhibition that results in lower glucose metabolism and the reduction in the availability of essential metabolites for bacterial growth which leads to the inhibition of cell apoptosis that increases infection in tick cells villar et al.

these results show that the inhibition of tick cell apoptosis is a physiologically relevant mechanism used by a. phagocytophilum to facilitate infection and multiplication in both tick and vertebrate host cells de la fuente et al.

sub has been shown to be required for tick feeding and reproduction and for pathogen infection and therefore the preservation of this protein is important for both tick and pathogen survival de la fuente and contreras 2015. in i. scapularis the x-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein xiap interacts with the e2 conjugating enzyme bendless affecting positive and negative regulators of the immune deficiency imd pathway resulting in protection against infection by a. phagocytophilum severo et al.

