limited evidence for overt aps in c. burnetti infection in the liter- ature should not imply a low risk in patients with q fever .autoimmune liver diseasea case report on a patient with primary biliary sclerosis pbs described a temporal association with b. burgdorferi which prompted the authors to speculate that molecular mimicry be- tween b. burgdorferi and disease-specific mitochondrial antigens may account for the breakdown of self-tolerance and the induction of anti-mitochondrial autoimmunity .

identified a case of tm in which co-infection by b. burgdorferi and b. microti was documented.

clinical history physical exam and laboratory tests are necessary to confirm the diagnosis.systemic sclerosisa case report of a 61-year-old woman with raynaud's phe- nomenon nail-fold changes circulating anti-centromere anti- bodies and skin thickening mimicking ssc was the first case reported suggesting an association between ssc and b. burgdorferi infection.

burgdorferi  which suggested an association between gpa onset and b. burgdorferi infection.borrellia spp.

she disclosed altered hepatic profiles which may suggest an autoimmune liver disease although liver biopsy was consistent with q fever .tick borne diseases and likely associations with autoimmunitysystemic lupus erythematosus-like syndromea patient with psoriasis who was found to have b. burgdorferi antibodies developed systemic lupus erythematosus sle-like syndrome after the beginning of infliximab treatment.

thus authors hypothesized that some cases of dermatomyositis could be triggered by b. burgdorferi.rheumatoid arthritisalthough chronic arthritis following ld is common it is unclear whether b. burgdorferi infection may produce ra.

an additional case of shulman syndrome triggered by b. burgdorferi has been described .

nonetheless a relation with mycobacteria and p. acnes was observed which prompted authors to hypothesize that sarcoidosis etiology may be environ- mentally influenced as different microorganisms may be involved .dermatomyositisseveral case reports have suggested the relationship between dermatomyositis and b. burgdorferi infection.

since a clear etiology of pmr has not been defined b. burgdorferi may be considered as a possible trigger.a single case reported by chaumetin et al.

a case report showed a positive serology to b. burgdorferi in a newly-diagnosed patient with ms .

thus in susceptible individuals b. burgdorferi could elicit aitd.further a single case of gd and rickettsia spp.

however contradictory evi- dence exists regarding b. burgdorferi as an etiological factore.crohn's diseasea case report of a patient with crohn's disease was reported .

pers m. puygrenier f. borlot b. simorre i. barazer e. oziol j. reny acute q fever antiphopholipid antibodies and renal artery thrombosis case report and literature review la rev.

a case of a patient with renal thrombosis q fever and apl is available as well as a case of splenic infarction .

in any case we highlight the presence of autoimmune phenomena related to q fever igm anti-ps antibodies and positive igm and igg acl antibodies.other autoimmune diseasesa case described a 34-year-old asplenic woman who developed focal ocular vasculitis accompanied by positive rheumatoid factor anas decreased serum c3 complement and systemic involvement i.e.

