in addition relations were observed between gut microbes and eating behaviors including eating frequency early energy consumption and overnight- fast duration.conclusions these results indicate that the human gastrointestinal microbiota composition and function vary throughout the day which may be related to the circadian biology of the human body the microbial community itself or human eating behaviors.

c 2017 american society for nutritiontime eating behaviors and human gut microbiota1221health although conflicting evidence exists 18-20. the consump- tion of a larger proportion of energy early in the day complements human circadian rhythms for example glucose tolerance and diet- induced thermogenesis are higher in the morning than in the evening 21 22.the aim of this study was to examine the relations between the human gastrointestinal microbiota and 2 closely intertwined elements--time as it relates to biological circadian rhythms and behavior as it relates to time of eating.

both genera produce butyrate 39 and our results likewise showed that butyrate concentrations decreased throughout the day.in one murine study 17 of otus were cyclical with 20-83of bacterial sequences at any one time belonging to otus that cycled 11. genera found to cycle in murine models which were also detectable in the human participants in our study include bacteroides 12 40 lactococcus 10 11 lactoba-cillus 11 12 oscillospira 10 40 ruminococcus 10 s24-740 turicibacter 40 sutterella 40 akkermansia 11 and bifidobacterium 11. in addition total bacterial load number of mucosa-associated bacteria and firmicutes peak during feeding whereas the other major phyla--actinobacteria bacteroidetes proteobacteria and verrucomicrobia--peak during fasting in murine models 11 40 41. in the only human microbiota-focused circadian study to date which included 2 individuals oscillations were found in 10 of otus including parabacteroides lachnospira and bulleida 12. herein we reported that 12 of sequences intime eating behaviors and human gut microbiota1225figure 2 associations of bacterial otus with time in the biological model.

time of day and eating behaviors are associated with the composition and function of the human gastrointestinal microbiotajennifer l kaczmarek1 salma ma musaad2 and hannah d holscher1-31division of nutritional sciences 2family resiliency center and 3department of food science and human nutrition university of illinois at urbana-champaign urbana ilabstractbackground preclinical research has shown that the gastrointestinal microbiota exhibits circadian rhythms and that the timing of food consumption can affect the composition and function of gut microbes.

relative abundance of the bacterium was higher when eating frequency was higher.significant p  0.05. otu operational taxonomic unit.1230kaczmarek et al.may modulate circadian variation in the human gastrointestinal microbiome.the relations reported between the human gut microbiota and time of day highlight several important points in the expanding area of microbiome research.

thus our results that human gastrointestinal bacteria fluctuate in abun- dance throughout the day are supported by changes in metabolite concentrations throughout the day preclinical findings 10 11 40 and the results reported in a small n  2 human study 12. associations between time and bacterial abundances may be related to specific bacterial traits such as bile resistance.

am j clin nutr 20171061220-31.keywords circadian rhythms microbiome eating patterns eating frequency early energy consumption overnight-fast duration timing of eating humans adultsintroductionthe composition and function of the human gastrointestinal microbiota are increasingly linked to metabolic health 1 2 andsupported by the university of illinois division of nutritional sciencesresearch excellence fellowship and the usda national institute of food and agriculture hatch project illu-698-902.

given the rhythmic nature of the gastrointestinal microbiota in preclinical studies we hypothesized that human gastrointestinal microbial abun- dances and metabolites vary throughout the day and are affected by behavioral patterns of eating timing.methodsparticipantsthe study described herein was a secondary analysis of samples and data collected from the control period 0 g supplemental fiber of a previously completed trial of agave inulin consumption in healthy adults n  28 14 women 23. the inclusion criteria for participants of the primary study were as follows 1 be between the ages of 20 and 40 y 2 have a bmi in kgm2 .18.5 and29.5 3 have no current or historical metabolic or gastrointes- tinal diseases 4 avoid medications known to affect gastrointes- tinal function 5 have no use of antibiotics for at least the past8 wk 6 limit alcohol consumption to 2 servingsd e.g.28 g ethanold 7 avoid taking prebiotics or probiotics 8 consume a moderate-fiber diet consistent with the us average of 12-19 gd 9 maintain consistent vitamin and mineral sup- plementation as at baseline 10 maintain current level of physical activity 11 record detailed dietary and stool information daily and 12 meet with study personnel weekly.

second the human gastrointestinal microbiota has been shown to be affected by age 32 sex 33 bmi 34 35 and dietary fiber intake 5. this warranted statistical control of these variables within the models to allow for the detection of associations beyond these variables.

finally propionate was present at higher concentrations with longer overnight-fast duration.discussionthe relations between the human gastrointestinal microbiota and health and disease make it a promising target for lifestyle interventions.

in parallel research has shown the importance of circadian rhythms to normal metabolic homeostasis 38 and the presence of these rhythms in the bacterial community of the murine gastrointestinal tract 8 11. herein we report for the first time to our knowledge a connection between time eating be- haviors and human gastrointestinal microbiota composition and function.figure 1 associations of short-chain fatty acids with time in the bi- ological model.

for example the murine study used cecal contents immediately harvested from killed mice whereas our study used fecal samples collected from humans within 15 min of passing and concentrations were reported on a dry matter basis.we also report that certain members of the human gastroin-testinal microbiota changed with time.

p  0.05 p  0.01. otu operational taxonomic unit.the human gastrointestinal microbiota belong to an otu that was associated with time.

for ex- ample enterobacter aerogenes is affected by melatonin a cir-cadian hormone 6.few studies exist on behavioral elements of eating timing and the gastrointestinal microbiota one study in horses reported that increased meal frequency was associated with increased relative abundance of the genus yrc22 within the family parapre- votellaceae and decreased relative abundances of prevotella lactobacillus streptococcus coprococcus and phascolarcto- bacterium 44. although we also reported associations with eating frequency among phylogenetically diverse microbes none of the microbes that were associated with feeding fre- quency in equine ceca were the same as those in the human gastrointestinal tract.

toour knowledge it is the first of its kind to examine the biological and behavioral influences of time on the human gastrointestinal microbiota and many of our findings replicate and extend those reported in preclinical studies.

