participants were not allowed to eat or drink any food or beverage 1 h before the saliva sampling.salivary samples were collected and extracted from d 0 baseline before starting the food timing intervention d 7 one wk after exposure to either the ee or le intervention d 14 washout 1 wk after following their habitual food timing and d 21 one wk after exposure to the other food timing intervention.

several factors could be involved in the effect of food intake timing on metabolic alterations such as substrate oxidation and circadian-related variables 6 as well as differences in diet-induced thermogenesis 12. however other physiologic changes that contribute to obesity and metabolic syndrome may be implicated in the changes induced by the timing of food intake.recent evidence from animal and human studies in-dicates that the composition and function of the gut mi- crobiota may be involved in obesity weight loss and metabolic alterations 13-16. moreover studies per- formed in extremely obese subjects have demonstrated that weight loss improves the obesity-associated gut microbiota composition toward a lean microbiome phenotype 17.the salivary microbiota composition and diversity have also been linked to obesity and metabolic alterations 18 19 and a positive association between obesity and bacterial cellular abundance in oral subgingival biofilms has been found in adolescents 20. more important recent results suggest that the oral cavity serves as a reservoir for potential intestinal pathobionts that can exacerbate in- testinal disease or other inflammatory diseases 21. in- deed ectopic colonization of oral bacteria in the intestine drives th1 cell induction and inflammation 21.the impact of timing of food intake on microbiota in humans has not been investigated.

no differences due to food timing were observed for the fb ratio wilcoxon 0800 h p  0.695 1200 h p  0.432 1600 h p  0.160 and 2400 h p  0.99 or the pbratio wilcoxon 0800 h p  0.905 1200 h p  0.612 1600 hp  0.770 and 2400 h p  0.161. finally no significant overall microbial community structure differences be- tween both food timing conditions were observed at the taxonomic level of genus anosim supplemental ta- ble 7. these findings indicate that although food timing affected the a diversity of the salivary microbiota it did not change the overall microbial community structure or any individual taxa.next we assessed diurnal rhythms in salivary micro- biota.

there was a signifi- cant effect of time of day as well as an interaction between time of day and food timing condition on a diversity at several taxonomic levels in salivary microbiota.in saliva microbiota it has been recently shown that good oral health is associated with lower phy- logenetic diversity whereas inflammatory problems such as periodontal diseases and high bmi are asso- ciated with higher diversity 19. moreover in in- fants a-diversity scores in saliva tend to be higher in obese vs. nonobese children across all a-diversity metrics 52. in our late food timing condition we found higher microbial diversity during the middle of the day as compared with the early food timing condition in salivary microbiota.

collado f. a. j. l. scheer and m. garaulet designed the research c. bandin and m. c. collado performed the research p. a. engen r. cabrera-rubio r. m. voigt s. j. green a. naqib and a. keshavarzian analyzed the data and performed statistical analyses m. c. collado p. a. engen f. a. j. l. scheer a. keshavarzian and m. garaulet wrote the paper and m. c. collado p. a. engen f. a. j. l. scheer a. keshavarzian and m. garaulet are primarily responsibility for the final content.referencesgaraulet m. and go'mez-abella'n p. 2014 timing of food intake and obesity a novel association.

p  0.05.food timing and daily rhythms in oral microbiota5table 3. effect of time of day across each food timing condition on salivary a diversitya diversityf339patime point comparisonbforty total saliva samples per analysis number of saliva samples per time point per group  10. p  0.05 p  0.01 p  0.001. ns no significance arms 1-way anova btukey's multiple comparison test.wilcoxon p  0.625 relative abundance of sequences from putative short-chain fatty acid-producing bacte- ria wilcoxon p  0.844 butyrate-producing anti- inflammatory genera wilcoxon p  1.00 or overall microbial community analyses at the taxonomic level of genus anosim global r  20.135 p  0.965 sup- plemental table 7. these findings indicate that ee vs. le did not affect the fecal microbiota of healthy normal-weight women.discussionthe composition of the diet what we eat has been widely related to microbiota profile 50 51. however whetherthe timing of our meals when we eat influences microbiota in humans is unknown.

however to our knowledge no interventional studies have been published in humans showing the impact of changes in the timing of food intake on digestive tract microbiota.the purpose of our study was to fill this gap in knowl- edge by determining the effect of the timing of food intake on human digestive tract microbiota saliva and feces.

the day of the saliva sampling energy intake was 1858 6 162 kcald 50 of energy was sup- plied by carbohydrate 35 by fat and 15 by protein fiber intake was 20 6 2 g. total energy intake and macronutrient composition were determined with the grunumur version 2.0 university of murcia murcia spain 29 a nutrition evaluation program in conjunction with spanish food composition tables30 supplemental table 1. the timing of food intake was fixed during the whole intervention and was at 0830 h for breakfast and 2100 h for dinner participants were not allowed to eat be- tween meals and were instructed to follow their habitual sleep patterns which were required to be the same during both meal timing intervention weeks.anthropometric measurementsbody weight was determined in barefooted participants wearing light clothes with a digital scale accurate to thenearest 0.1 kg.

although food timing condition was not a significant factor both time of day and its interaction with food timing condition were significant factors for a diversity at many taxonomic levels fig.

along those lines a recent ob- servational study has reported significant associa- tions between the relative abundance of several gut bacterial families and the distribution of energy intake before or after 1400 h 24. nevertheless fur- ther food timing interventional studies in obese and diabetic subjects are needed to confirm these results.in addition food timing affected salivary microbiota diurnal rhythms in individual bacterial taxa.

3.sulfate-reducing bacteria to produce hydrogen sulfide 66 and bacteroidetes genus porphyromonas and pre- votella belonging to the family paraprevotellaceae displayed daily rhythms only in le conditions and not at ee 67-69. these results indicate that similar to what happens in animal studies eating at an un- usual time during the day in nocturnal animal studies and late in humans induces diurnal rhythms in those oral sulfate-reducing bacteria and pathobiont microbiota.these results go along with those in other reports obtained in the gut microbiota in animal models mice which have shown that intestinal microbiota undergo diurnal oscillations 25 70 and that not only the type of diet but also the timing of food intake can affect these daily rhythms 22 65 71. indeed the current randomized crossover trial performed in humans revealed the impact of food timing on the diurnal rhythm in salivary microbiota even though the par- ticipants followed the same diet during the two in- tervention weeks.there are some limitations in our study.

in experimental animals the time of food intake in addition to dietary composition is an important pa- rameter when assessing the microbiota's contribution to host metabolism 22. indeed changes in gut micro- biota because of the timing of feeding have shown to have consequences for the circadian system because they can affect circadian clock activity in different tis- sues 65 72-74. this has shown to be particularly critical for metabolic homeostasis of the host as failure to rhythmically control the microbiota results in dys- biosis that promotes obesity and other manifestations of the metabolic syndrome 71 75 76.to conclude food timing has an impact on thedaily rhythms of human salivary microbiota.

al- though our study provides information on the effect of timing of food intake on the microbiota further re- search is needed to explore the complex and dynamic interrelation between food timing daily rhythms in microbiota composition and health.

thejournal  research  timing of food intake impacts daily rhythms of human salivary microbiota a randomized crossover studymar'ia carmen collado12 phillip a. engen1 cristina bandi'nss rau' l cabrera-rubiok robin m. voigt stefan j. green ankur naqib ali keshavarzianssss frank a. j. l. scheerkk3and marta garauletss34department of biotechnology institute of agrochemistry and food technology-spanish national research council iata-csic valencia spain division of digestive diseases and nutrition department of internal medicine department of pharmacology and department of physiology rush university medical center chicago illinois usa department of physiology university of murcia murcia spainssmurcian institute of biosanitary research imib-arrixaca murcia spain alimentary pharmabiotic centre apc microbiome instituteuniversity college cork cork ireland kmoorepark teagasc food research centre fermoy ireland dna services facility research resources center and department of biological sciences university of illinois at chicago chicago illinois usa ssssdivision of pharmacology utrecht institute for pharmaceutical sciences utrecht university utrecht the netherlands division of sleep and circadian disorders brigham and women's hospital boston massachusetts usa and kkdivision of sleep medicine harvard medical school boston massachusetts usaabstract the composition of the diet what we eat has been widely related to the microbiota profile.

these diurnal fluctuations were present already at phylum and class level in the le condition whereas in the eefood timing and daily rhythms in oral microbiota7table 4. effect of time of day for each food timing condition on saliva sample's relative abundance of sequences derived from individual taxaforty total saliva samples per analysis number of saliva samples per time point per group  10. arms friedman test all significant at p  0.05. bdunn's multiple comparison test.

