Evidence to date from genetic mouse models implies that HIF-1 and HIF-2 play non-redundant roles  despite their expression in many cell types including intesti- nal epithelial cells .In the context of mucosal inflammation a protective role for HIF in regulation of intestinal epithelial barrier function has been strongly implicated .

The expression of IDO1 in intestinal epithelial cells also correlates with anti-inflammatory properties of den- dritic cells inducing colonic lymphocytes to secrete IFN-g triggering IDO1 expression in intestinal epithelial cells - and reducing the severity of colitis in mice .

Butyrate produced by anaerobic bacteria increases epithelial oxygen consumption stabilizes HIF and activates HIF dependent gene transcription.Indole metabolites are produced by a variety of enteric bacteria and can alter colonic epithelial cell signaling through activation of AHRIt is likely that butyrate influences HIF expression in the colon.

The current concept of IBD etiology denotes dysregulated intracellular sensing of low- Sean P. Colgan 1 Department of Medicine and the Mucosal Inflammation Program University of Colorado Denver RC2 Room 10450 12700 E. 19th Ave Aurora CO 80045 USAlevel invasive bacteria and inappropriate propagation of intes- tinal immune responses in genetically susceptible individuals .Tissues lined by epithelial cells termed mucosal tissues provide a selective barrier to the outside world.

In this mini-review we highlight recent studies focused on the role tissue metabolism in mucosal inflammatory responses.Energy metabolism within the intestinal mucosaEven in the basal state epithelial cells lining the mucosa exist in a relatively low oxygen tension environment termed Bphysiologic hypoxia .

For example a role for epithelial barrier dysregulation in IBD is supported by observations of increased intestinal permeability in a subset of first-degree relatives of patients with Crohn's disease CD .

As increased epithelial permeability and resultant mucosal in- flammation and injury underpin the pathology of IBD a fun- damental understanding of microenvironmental metabolic factors that influence initiation perpetuation and resolution of overt disease is central to defining potential therapeutic targets.Hypoxia-inducible factor and mucosal tissue metabolismHypoxia-inducible factor HIF is a member of the Per- ARNT-Sim family of basic helix-loop-helix transcription fac- tors that recognizes hypoxia response elements HREs at tar- get gene loci under low oxygen conditions .

Originally guided by micro- array analysis of differentially expressed mRNA in cultured epithelial cells subjected to hypoxia  these studies have withstood the test of time and proven robust in a number of animal models and in human patients.

Further interrogation of mechanisms related to HIF-dependent barrier protection has identified a number of target genes central to epithelial barrier properties including mucin gene expression tight junction genes and adheren junction gene regulation .

One study for example examined the impact of oxygen me- tabolism during PMN transepithelial migration across colonic epithelial cells .

