some of the current and hottest topics in the field are investigating ancient health practices such as mindfulness-based med- itation tai chi exercise perinatal health and the gut microbiome.

this occurred although many health issues such as aging sleep mental health post- traumatic stress disorder biological rhythms and autism spectrum disorders did not easily fit in any of these artificially created silos.

consistent with the mission of the national center for comple- mentary and integrative health nccih one approach is to evalu- ate the usefulness and safety of complementary and integrative health interventions.

it is therefore clear that more money spent on health care and pills does not necessarily translate into improved health at least in the usa.the excessive use of pills in the usa compared to other indus- trialized western countries is both deploring and unacceptable.

it is now clear that inflammatory events that occur before during and after birth can have long-term impacts on health including mental health disorders such as aut- ism spectrum disorders schizophrenia emotionality cognition and pain .

as such well-known century-old health treat- ments could act by impairing the action of suppressive regulatory t cells outside of the brain.important new discoveries that underlie development and treatment of mental health disorders are also related to systemic inflammation and the brain.

codabrain behavior and immunity is well-aligned with the mission of the national institutes of health ''to seek fundamental knowl- edge about the nature and behavior of living systems and the application of that knowledge to enhance health lengthen life and reduce illness and disability.

in keeping with the mission of the national institutes of health brain behavior and immunity searches for the underlying cause and poten- tial efficacy of both drug and non-drug interventions.

just as it originally challenged the specialization philosophy that is so prevalent in medicine it is now exploring the integrative physiolog- ical events that underlie century-old health practices.

''to boldly go whereone has gone before so why the that's because some of the topics that are most in vogue and that are being published today in brain behavior and immunity have been studied for centuries meditation exercise perinatal environ- ment and gut health.

similarly the national institutes of health and other global funding agencies created study sections based on these rather narrow specific disciplines.

although obtaining grants from the national institutes of health has always been challenging it was particularly difficult to secure funding for scientists who chose this road less traveled.

because brain behavior and immunity has been ranked by the web of science in the top 15 of all scientific journals in the cate- gories of both neuroscience and immunology for the past several years it has come to be known as ''the best immunology journal in neuroscience.psychoneuroimmunology challenges the pill society culture of americansthe aim of brain behavior and immunity is to support psy- choneuroimmunology research by publishing cutting-edge find- ings in the field and to increase understanding of the fundamental mechanisms that will improve the health of all of us.

the most visible example of that today is the opioid crisis in which the addictive properties of opioids and their derivatives have led to many deaths.the usa accounts for less than 5 of the global population butspends nearly half 3.2 trillion of all worldwide spending on health care .

a few examples are briefly highlighted belowtable 1themes of articles that formed the basis of special issues and named series published in brain behavior and immunity.special issuestable 1 continued named series1 the doi links to the guest editors' commentaryarticle dedicated to their named seriesspecial issue no named series prior to 2006.mindfulness-based meditationincreased spending in psychoneuroimmunology research aimed at understanding how to modify our behaviors in the absence of prescription drugs provides an inexpensive and practical approach for improving health care while at the same time reducing costs.

