in the present study we therefore assessed whether 1 intestinal colonization 2 macro- scopic and microscopic sequelae 3 intestinal and sys- temic pro-inflammatory immune responses and 4 bac- terial translocation to extra-intestinal including systemic compartments following peroral mdr pa challenge of secondary abiotic il10-- mice occurred tlr4-depend- ently.materials and methodsmice and broad-spectrum antibiotic treatmentfemale and male il10-- mice and il10-- mice lacking tlr4 tlr4-- x il10-- all in c57bl10scsn back- ground were bred and housed within the same specific pathogen-free unit of the forschungseinrichtungen fur ex- perimentelle medizin fem charite - university medi- cine berlin.

2. hence mdr pa could stably establish in the intestinal tract of mice irrespective of their genotype but with higher colonization densities in tlr4-deficient il10-- mice.macroscopic and microscopic inflammatory sequelae following mdr p. aeruginosa colonization of secondary abiotic il10-- mice lacking tlr4stable intestinal colonization of secondary abiotic il10-- mice with high loads of mdr pa did not lead to overt mac- roscopic i.e.

hence tlr4 deficiency of pa-colonized il10-- mice is associated with less dis- tinct innate as well as adaptive immune cell responses in the large intestines.intestinal and systemic nitric oxide secretion following peroral mdr p. aeruginosa association of secondary abiotic il10-- mice lacking tlr4next we addressed whether the observed intestinal im- mune cell responses upon mdr pa challenge of second- ary abiotic il10-- mice lacking tlr4 were accompanied by local or even systemic secretion of the pro-inflamma- tory mediator no.

6. hence intestinal mdr pa was able to translocate to extra-intestinal including systemic compart- ments in tlr4-deficient il10-- mice only.discussiongiven a large gap in knowledge regarding the crosstalk between mere intestinal carriage of mdr gram-negative strains including pa and innate immunity we were able to show in the present study for the very first time that fol- lowing peroral challenge with a clinical mdr pa strain tlr4 deficiency of secondary abiotic il10-- mice was accompanied by 1 higher mdr pa colonization densi- ties and bacterial translocation frequencies but by 2 less distinct colonic epithelial apoptosis and 3 innate as well as adaptive immune responses in the large intestines by4 less no secretion in mln but conversely 5 higher systemic no concentrations in both naive and colonizedtlr4-deficient il10-- mice as compared to il10-- coun- terparts.we here applied the secondary abiotic il10-- mouse model for the following reasons.

hence mdr pa-induced intestinal and systemic immune re- sponses observed in secondary abiotic il10-- mice are tlr4-dependent.keywords pseudomonas aeruginosa multidrug-resistant gram-negative bacteria colonization resistance susceptibility to infec- tion gut microbiota shifts secondary abiotic gnotobiotic il10-deficient mice pro-inflammatory immune responses bacterial translocation toll-like receptor-4 lipopolysaccharideintroductionthe fine-tuned interactions of immune cells pattern rec- ognition receptors such as toll-like receptors tlr and evolving signaling pathways are pivotal for preventing the host from invading opportunistic pathogens and for bac- terial clearance 1 2. tlr4 is the receptor for sensing cell wall constituents such as lipopetide and lipopolysaccha- ride lps derived from gram-negative bacteria including pseudonomas aeruginosa pa 2-4. besides lps this aerobic opportunistic pathogen harbors a diverse arsenal of virulence factors facilitating adhesion and invasionfurther immune escape establishment and persistence within the host 5 6. particularly in hospitalized patients with deprived immune functions pa is one of the most common nosocomial pathogens responsible for severe in- fections with significant mortality 7. acute pa-related morbidities include ventilator-associated pneumonia in- fections of surgical sites burn wounds and of the urinary tract 8. furthermore pa is a frequent cause for chronic pulmonary infections in patients suffering from chronic obstructive lung disease bronchiectasis or cystic fibrosis for instance 9 10. given its preferential growth in moist environments water bottles sinks and respiratory equip- corresponding author markus m. heimesaat department of microbiology and hygiene charite - university medicine berlin cc5 campus benjamin franklin fem garystr.

at the age of 3 weeks sex-matched mice of either genotype were subjected to a broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment as de- scribed earlier 13 20. in brief mice were transferred to sterile cages and treated with a quintuple antibiotic cock- tail consisting of ampicillin plus sulbactam 1 gl ratio-pharm ulm germany vancomycin 500 mgl cell pharm hannover germany ciprofloxacin 200 mgl bayer vital leverkusen germany imipenem 250 mgl msd haar germany and metronidazole 1 gl frese- nius bad homburg germany via the drinking water ad libitum for 4 months.

animal welfare was monitored twice daily by assessment of clinical conditions.resultsintestinal colonization properties of mdr p. aeruginosain secondary abiotic il10-- mice lacking tlr4we first generated secondary abiotic tlr4-deficient il10-- mice and il10-- counterparts to assure stable in- testinal mdr pa colonization.

in order to prevent mice from potential colitogenic stimuli derived from the com- mensal intestinal microbiota mice were subjected to a 4-month course of broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment via the drinking water immediately after weaning i.e.

numbers of mice harboring p. aeruginosa out of the total number of analyzed mice in parentheses medians black bars and significance levels p values determined by wilcoxon and mann-whitney u test are indicated.

whereas pa colonization did not induce apo- ptosis in mice of either genotype apoptotic colonic epithe- lial cell numbers were lower in pa-colonized tlr4-- x il10-- mice as compared to il10-- counterparts at day 14 p.i.

numbers of mice har- boring p. aeruginosa out of the total number of analyzed mice in parentheses medians black bars and significance levels p values determined by mann-whitney u test are indicated.

data shown were pooled from two independent experimentscolonic innate and adaptive immune cell responses following mdr p. aeruginosa colonization of secondary abiotic il10-- mice lacking tlr4we next addressed whether stable colonization of sec- ondary abiotic tlr4-deficient il10-- mice with mdrp.

in fact tlr4-- x il10-- mice displayed only one third of f480 colonic cell numbers that had been observed in il10-- mice at day 14 p.i.

furthermore in mln no secretion was less pronounced in il10-- mice lacking tlr4 as compared to il10-- controls mice at day 14 p.i.

numbers of animals harboring the p. aeruginosa strain out of the total num- ber of analyzed animals are given in parenthesesbacterial translocation following mdr p. aeruginosa colonization of secondary abiotic il10-- mice lacking tlr4we finally addressed whether systemic immune responses upon pa colonization of tlr4-deficient il10-- mice were associated with bacterial translocation from the intestinal tract to extra-intestinal including systemic compartments.

