phytophthora parasitica has been shown to exploit intraspecific zoo- spore communication to improve adhesion to host cells and to express a set of effector and mucin-like genes by means of biofilm formation  .a first analysis of the microbiota dynamics in relation tooomycete infections has been carried out in fish a meta-taxonomic analysis of saprolegnia-associated fish egg diseases indicated a correlation between a low incidence of saprolegniasis on salmon eggs having an immature adap- tive immune system and a high richness and abundance of specific commensal actinobacteria with species from the frondihabitans genus inhibiting attachment of saprolegnia to eggs in the case of plant infections the oomycete- microbiota interactions interfacing with the disease cycle are scarcely documented  in this report we sought to explore changes in the composition of the rhizosphere microbiota following infection of tomato roots by p. para- sitica.

the infection of a host plant by p. parasitica re- lies on the secretion of plant cell wall-degrading enzymes that leads to successful penetration of the host and to subsequent acquisition of nutrients  the ability of the oomycetes to efficiently depolymerize polysac- charides could contribute to the observed enrichment of bacteroidetes within p. parasitica-associated microbiota.

at wound sites  the oomycete material would constitute a boarding gate for bacteria of this family to gain access to nutrients.conclusionssignificant changes in microbiota composition during the oomycete plant infection were identified.

the range of 16s gene copy number in the genome is given for each of these families in additional file table s4 wher- ever data was available .partnerships between p. parasitica and bacteria m2m2 replicates were screened for bacterial species associ- ated with p. parasitica and regulated plant infection.

pcr amplification and statistical analyses was carried out as previously described resultsstructure of p. parasitica-associated microbiota metagenomicanalysesallowedcharacterizationof rhizosphere-associated microbiota colonizing roots of tomato seedlings without m1 or previously coated withp.

to test whether there is a subset of the rhizosphere microbiota able to interact with oomycete and affect plant disease onset a first aim was to characterize composition and specificity of the rhizopheric microbiota having the ability to colonize biofilms.

the present study further illustrates an aspect of cooperationbetween an oomycete and opportunistic bacteria by demonstrating that oomycete infection extends the habi- tat availability for pseudomonas spp.

as a matter of fact all these phyla are known to characterize a number of rhizosphere microbiota  indicating that the microbiota we stud- ied have the same overall content as that of other rhizo- sphere microbiota.

nevertheless our results suggest that oomycete infection may facilitate op- portunistic infection by pseudomonas spp.

the first as- sumption has been evaluated at the transcriptomic level through the analysis of gene expression of targeted genes recruited for structural functions or by brute force and stealth modes of infection no influ- ence of the bacteria-oomycete interaction was observed on the mrna abundance of genes during the oomycete infection process.

in order to achieve biofilm formation microbe-free roots of tomato seedlings 2 weeks post germination were incubated for 3 h at 20 degc with zoospores 106 cellsml of the p. parasitica strain 149 reported as highly aggressive on tomato seedlings were selected under binocular for a biofilm coverage of root surface estimated at 30-50. supernatants recovered from microbial suspensions were then placed in a 15-cm plastic petri dish and were incu- bated at 20 degc under regular agitation in the presence of tomato roots with or without p. parasitica biofilms.

does not induce p. parasitica effector gene regulationprevious investigations on the p. parasitica biofilm tran- scriptome led to the identification of upregulated tran- scripts encoding i mucin-like proteins of the ppmucl family  ii pectate lyases pptg03562029494818 identified as involved in the degradation of pectin com- ponents of the plant cell wall and the rxlr effector pse1 accumulating in penetrating appressoria to characterize the effect of pseudomonas spp.

they were screened for pro- biotic or antibiotic activity towards p. parasitica as well as for influence on oomycete pathogenicity in the context of a tripartite host plant-p. parasitica-bacteria interaction.methodssoil samplingsampling was performed on soil supporting tomato growth solanum lycopersicum cv.

for this purpose re-sequencing of 16s rrna gene amplicons was performed to characterize from phylum to family content of microbiota resulting from the colonization by soil microorganisms of roots i free or iipartly covered with a p. parasitica biofilm.

our results suggest that at early stages of tripartite interaction the abundance of assessed transcripts were not upregulated in response to the colonization of the biofilm by pseudomonas spp.discussionthe bacteroidetesproteobacteria shifthere we report the change in the composition of the rhizosphere microbiota of solanum lycopersicum at root surface in association with p. parasitica biofilm formation at phylum fig.

