2017 demonstrate that choline metabolism by gut bacteria plays a signif-icant role in modulating host access to this resource romano et al.

2017 hypothe- sized that the bacterial strains able to couple nitrate respiration with choline usage could bear an evolutionary advan- tage in the inflamed gut as previously sug- gested winter et al.

it is critical for neurotransmission as it is the precursor of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine for epigenetic regulation via the synthesis of the major methyl donor s-adenosylme- thionine sam and is necessary to pro- duce phosphatidylcholine the ubiquitous phospholipid that ensures the integrity of cell membranes zeisel 2000. choline's essential nature has been widely evi- denced by studies in which choline defi- ciency results in abnormalities in epige- netic regulation and lipid metabolism lombardi et al.

for example are the non-bacterial members of the oral microbiome such as candida albicans which is an indicator of oral health also heritable do the heritable oral bacteria identified in children remain heritable in adults how do modern oral hygiene practices affect estimates of heritability would oral microbiomes collected from populations that do not regularly visit dentists or use toothpastes with anti-community.

in supragingival plaque from the hmp study genus aggregatibacter was associated with genetic variants on chro- mosomes 3 and 11 while in the twin studyan aggregatibacter otu is heritable h2  0.35. additionally in saliva from the hmp study genus leptotrichia was associated with genetic variants on chromosome 15 while in the twin study a leptotrichia otu is highly heritable h2  0.54.the role of the host genetics in deter- mining oral microbiomes seems to differ from its role in the gut the most well- studied body site to date.

would the heritability of gut microbe abundances be higher in children than in the current estimates from adultsanother difference between gut and oral sites is the relationship of heritable taxa to the rest of the microbialcell host  microbe 22 september 13 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc. 251cell host  microbepreviewsfigure 1. candidate host secreted molecules that may influence heritability of the oral microbiomesaliva and epithelial tissues in the mouth contain a number of molecules with known genetic variation.

to test this hypothesis they developed a gnotobiotic model consisting of adult germ-free mice associated with a simplified gut micro- biota composed of five bacteria common in the human gut that are unable to metab- olize choline and added either a wild-type choline-consuming e. coli cc ora cutc knockout dcutc non-choline consuming mutant strain cc-.

1968 pogribny and beland 2009. following ingestion some dietary choline is transformed by the gut microbial enzyme choline trimethylamine tma lyase into tma and acetaldehyde.

observed to be associated with host genetic variation are now reported as heritable by gomez et al.

these mutants were unable to grow on a restricted medium containing choline as the sole carbon source and failed to convert choline into tma demonstrating their essential involvement in tma production from dietary choline.

whether increased abundances of the heritable taxa at other body sites associate with health rather than disease is another open question.given that a sizeable proportion of common oral microbe abundances are heritable the next question is which host genes genetic variants and physiolog- ical processes potentially underlie thisheritability human saliva and mucosal surfaces contain a number of molecules encoded by the host genomes that likely play a role in the process including mucins immune compounds enzymes and taste receptors .

given that corynebacterium species are heritable while streptococcus species are not is it more than coincidence that the heritable species lie close to the human structures to which they attach this research clearly opens up many doors for future study.

typically a much smaller percentage of bacteria in the gut have heritable abundances somewhere between 10 and 20. those also tend to have lower heritability estimates usually no more than 0.4  .

focus on younger participants than the gut studies but heritability esti- mates decrease with age for the most heritable taxon prevotella pallens.

in contrast in the gut most heritable taxa co-occur with each other forming a clique  .

