we show that treatment can promote exogenous association with s. aureus and that the same staphylococcus residents disrupted by treatment are also capable of s. aureus competition decreasings.

in all our results demonstrate that antimicrobial drugs can elicit long-term shifts in skin bacterial com- munities and that treatment with these agents has key implications for host suscepti- bility to pathogens such as s. aureus.resultstopical antibiotic treatment alters skin bacterial residents.

in all this shows that skin bacterial residents can compete with s. aureus at the skin surface and that their removal can impact s. aureus colonization potential.discussiongiven the expansive use of topical antibiotics and antiseptics it is somewhat surprising that longitudinal studies to evaluate their effects on a community-wide scale are not more common.

indeed most mice exhibited greater than 10-fold reductions in s. aureus and many including those precolonized with s. epidermidis were capable of decreasing s. aureus by levels greater than 100-fold.

as hypothesized we observed a slight but significant increase in s. aureus levels in treated mice compared with that in untreated controls indicating a reduction in colonization resistance in response to treatment .because this effect could also be the result of additional factors including previously unidentified microbial inhabitants we next profiled individual staphylococcus isolatesa 86change frequency4group 1group 220d0d7d14d21d28d35d42d49time pointd56b 8642c 8treatment6no treat pegmupirocin4petrolatum tao2treatment no treat pegmupirocin petrolatum tao001234567daybaselinepost-trx 8n.s.n.s.n.s.n.s.6001234567daybaselinepost-trx 8644220uwap-itreatment0uwap-itreatmentfig 4 antimicrobial treatment alters resident staphylococcus colonization in a baseline-dependent manner.

because staphylococcus residents have been shown to compete with the skin pathogen s. aureus we also tested whether treat- ment could influence s. aureus levels at the skin surface.

we found that treated mice were more susceptible to exogenous association with s. aureus and that precoloniza- tion with the same staphylococcus residents that were previously disrupted by treat- ment reduced s. aureus levels by over 100-fold.

to evaluate the ability of each isolate to restrict s. aureus coloni- zation we precolonized mice with each staphylococcus resident similar to the method described above and then challenged them with s. aureus 1 day later.

to compete with s. aureus for colonization  we proceeded by testing the ability of murine staphylococcus isolates to compete with s. aureus.

importantly we found that all isolates were capable of protecting against s. aureus association with a number of mice exhibiting reductions in s. aureus levels by over 100-fold.

s. aureus strain 502a with selective streptomycin resistance was chosen for s. aureus competition studies because of its proven efficiency in skin colonization and its potential for pathogenicity  .

this includes defense against staphylococcus aureus by unique strains of s. epidermidis  s. lugdunensis  and most recently s. hominis .

comparing these to reference sequences within the ribosomal database project rdp  we identified four distinct species and two strain level variants s. epidermidis as9 s. xylosus as10 and as11 s. nepalensis as12 and s. lentus as17 .

while mupirocin led to the characteristic decreases often associated with antibiotic treatment tao treatment resulted in increases in bacterial load at numerous time points as measured by 16s rrna gene quantitative pcr qpcr fig.

as such the potential exists that by shifting the residents of the cutaneous microbiota treatment may shift the functional capabilities of these populations as well.antiseptic treatment elicits only modest changes to skin bacterial community structure.

