the homa-ir was increased and the isi was decreased in the hfd group compared with those of the control group but the homa-ir and isi were not significantly improved in the hfd  fmt group when compared with the hfd group fig.

the mrna levelsof fibrosis-associated genes in the liver such as tgf-b1 a-sma smad7 and smad2 were increased two times more in the hfd group than the control group whereas fmt intervention reduced the expression of these genes in the liver fig.

fbg was significantly elevated in the hfd group compared with the control group but exhibited no significant difference between the hfd and hfd  fmt group fig.

after 8 weeks of fmt intervention the body weight liver index and epididymal fat index in the hfd  fmt group were significantly decreased compared to those in the hfd group fig.

the liver he staining showed that the control group had no lipid accumulation and marked lipid accumulation was observed in the hfd group which was significantly attenuated by fmt treatment fig.

the mrna levels of tnf-a mcp-1 il-1b il-2 and il-6 in the liver were upregulated in the hfd group compared with the control group all of which were reduced by fmt intervention fig.

in the current study nab was significantly elevated in hfd  fmt group compared with that of the control group and hfd group.figure 5. immunoregulation of fmt in the liver.

after 16 weeks of the exper- iment mice in the hfd group gained more body weight than the control group.

the serum levels of alt and ast were significantly increased in the hfd group compared with the control group and significantly decreased after the 8-week fmt intervention fig.

the concentration of butyrate in cecal contents showed no difference between the control and hfd group but was significantly increased in the hfd  fmt group fig.

intrahepatic tg and cholesterol contents were increased by approximately 4-fold and 17-fold respectively in the hfd group when compared with the control group.

hepatic tlr4 and myd88 mrna were also significantly increased in the hfd group com- pared with the control group and were suppressed by fmt intervention fig.

.compared with the control group hepatic protein levels of foxp3 il-4 and il-22 in the hfd group were significantly decreased and the expressions of ifn-g and il-17 were significantly increased.

the results showed that foxp3 il-4 and il-22 were decreased whereas ifn-g and il-17 were relatively increased in the hfd group compared with the control group.

the ppar-a and ppar-g mrnas in the epididymal fat tis- sue were significantly downregulated in the hfd group compared with the control group and significantly upreg- ulated after fmt intervention fig.

