the samples were obtained from mice without tai with tai or treated with mir-34a-5p antagomir following tai individually.

e the difference of intestinal bacterial structure at phylum level of mice on the day before tai day 3 and day 6 after tai was examined using 16s high throughput sequencing n  5. f tail intravenous injection of mir-34a-5p antagomir was performed immediately following tai.

the samples were obtained from mice without tai with tai or treated with mir-34a-5p antagomir following tai individually.

e the correlation be- tween bdnf mrna and mir-34a-5p level was examined by qrt-pcr in 18 cases of hippo- campus tissues from tai exposed mice p  0.01 pearson correlation coefficient r  - 0.5643. f g the mrna and protein levels of bdnf were assessed by qrt-pcr and western blotting in hippocampus from mice with or without tai.

the observed species and shannon index analysis showed none significant alteration of gut microbiota in mice after tai exposure a c however mir-34a-5p antagomir injection changed the enteric bacterial composition at day 3 post irradiation b d. as the genus level top 10 harbored bacteria in irradiated mice with or without mir-34a-5p antagomir injection was different e f. in detail tai decrease the frequency of helicobacter and unchanged that of lactobacillus e supplementary fig.

inter- estingly the hippocampal mir-34a-5p level was about 2.5-fold higher in tai-challenged mice than those of healthy controls d and appeared to be inversely correlated with the hippocampal expression of bdnf mrna e. the decrease of hippocampal bdnf mrna and protein expression in tai-challenged mice was further validated by qrt-pcr and western blotting analyses f g. elisa and qrt- pcr analyses exhibited that irradiated mice carried higher levels ofto further elaborate the role of mir-34a-5p in tai-induced cogni- tive deficits we intravenously injected mir-34a-5p antagomir im- mediately following tai.

6. mwm test showed that the escape la- tency to find the platform was continuously lessened from day 1 to day 5 of training for all cohorts h however the mice carried gutmicrobes from donors with tai exposure spent less sequestered time in the target quadrant comparing with that of control and mice trans- planted gut microbes from irradiated mice with mir-34a-5p antagomir injection i suggesting that gut microbiota might be involved in tai-impaired cognitive function.discussionas a popular cancer therapeutic approach radiotherapy kills both cancer cells and bystander normal cells thereby remarkably affecting the integrity and function of healthy tissues .

f 1 47  4.399 between con- trol and tai group f 1 47  4.988 between tai and tai with mir-34a-5p antagomir groupp  0.05 anova n  12. f the times spent in target quadrant and swimming traces in 60 s at day 6 of morris water maze were shown.

f 111  9.720 between control and tai groupp  0.01 f 1 11  9.484 between tai and tai with mir-34a-5p antagomir groupp  0.05 anova n  12. g the level of faecal lcn2 was measured by elisa.

2. tai exposure causes up-regulation of mir- 34a-5p and parallel down-regulation of bdnf.microarray analysis was performed using small intestine tissues from mice with or without tai.

results with p  0.05 were considered statistically significant.resultstotal abdominal irradiation induces cognitive deficits in mouse modelsto investigate the effect of tai on cognitive function we performed morris water maze mwm test to assess animals' spatial learning and memory a. following exposure to total abdominal irradiation gamma-ray 10 gy mice exhibited radiation-induced alopecia hair loss after 2 months b confirming that tai indeed induced ab- dominal injury.

the difference of intestinal bacterial structure at phylum level of mice on the day before tai day 3 and day 6 after tai was examined using 16s high throughput sequencing n  5. g the mrna level of myd88 in small intestine tissues was assessed by qrt-pcr.

quantitative real-time polymerase chain reac- tion qrt-pcr analysis further confirmed the increase of mir-34a-5p in small intestine tissues and peripheral blood from tai treated mice compared with healthy controls b c. given the essential role of bdnf in brain function we compared the expression level of mir-34a- 5p in the hippocampus between tai-exposed and control mice.

we further vali- dated that tai exposure did not alter the levels of il-6 and tnf-a in peripheral blood g h suggesting that irradiated animals did not have abnormal immunity or low-graded systemic inflammation.tai divergently modulates the expression of mir-34a-5p and bdnfto decipher the underlying mechanism of tai-induced cognitiveimpairment we compared expression profiles of various mirnas in small intestine tissues between healthy control and tai-exposed mice.faecal lcn2 and small intestinal il-6 comparing with the healthy con- trol h i suggesting that tai exposure might cause gut in- flammation in mouse models.to further nail the relationship between mir-34a-5p and bdnf we constructed plasmids pgl3-bdnf 2427 and pgl3-bdnf 2020 car- rying the two potential binding sites for mir-34a-5p in the 3'utr of bdnf mrna a b. luciferase reporter assays revealed that mir- 34a-5p directly bound to the seed regions but failed to influence the paired seed region mutants pgl3-bdnf 2427-mut and pgl3-bdnf 2020-mut c and supplementary fig.

intriguingly tai exposure elevated the level of intestinal myd88 and caused gut inflammation in mouse models but tail vein injection of mir-34a-5p antagomir erased the events suggesting that myd88 and gut microbiota are implicated inmir-34a-5p antagomir retained gut microbiota shifted by tai.

