repeated exposure to water soaps detergents and underarm cosmet- ics decrease the microbial load and diversity to a point where only the most adjusted bacterial genera survive.2  bacteria underneath the axillary skin surface it is still under debate whether bacteria can live underneath the skin surface that is the sweat glands hair follicles sweat ducts amongst others.

these include the usage of antiperspirants oral medication iontopho- resis botulinum toxin injection sympathectomy excision of axillary skin axillary liposuction or laser- and microwave-based ablation of the sweat glands.

preferably the non-odour-causing microbiota occupy the axillary skin thus not releasing axillary malodour and preventing the growth of malodour- causing microbiota.

several patent applications were filed using lactic acid bacteria and bacilli on the axillary skin and some mention a reduced axillary malodour.

have been applied to the skin and resulted in a curative impact on skin disease states.

fourth many facultative or obligate anaerobic bacteria are found in the axillary region proving that these bacteria are present in the deeper skin region where the oxygen level and reduction potential is lower.

figure 1 represents a section of the axillary skin with the distribution of the bacteria as proposed in this viewpoint.

as such the content offigure 1 malodourous axillary skin section with indication of the bacterial occupation limited to corynebacterium and staphylococcus spp.

a high load of donor bacteria is transferred on the clean axillary skin of the acceptor using a cotton swab.

the axillary skin microbi- ome contains a wide diversity of bacteria where both malodour and non-odour-causing bacteria are present.

as compared to the primate axillary microbiome the human axillary mi- crobiome is much less diverse probably due to human hygiene habits.

there are nonetheless a number of reasons why living bacteria are present in these deeper skin regions.

first sweat glands and hair follicles are in contact with the outer skin epidermis through invagina- tion pores and dermal ducts.

the mi- crobiome of the deeper layers determined the recolonization process after skin barrier disruption.4 next to this bacteria were microscopi- cally observed in the duct of eccrine sweat glands in biopsy studies.

and fifth a substantial share of the patients suffering from malodourous armpits indicates that the malodour immediately returns after cleaning the armpit skin or taking a shower callewaert personal observation.

