dysbiosis of the microbiota may in turn affect these same processes 55. stress might also affect neurodevelopment through the microbiota's di- rect effect on immune and inflammatory processes and through neuroendocrine-mediated inflammation 55.there is also evidence from animal models that composition of the gut microbiota can be manipulated to both initiate and re- verse a range of behavioral states associated with anxiety depres- sion and sociability 56. in part this could be due to metabolites of microbes which include neuroactive compounds such as gamma-aminobutyric acid 4157. metabolites also may have epi- genetic effects 35 that could have far-reaching implications for psychosocial functioning and the neurodevelopmental sequela of early-life stress 55. however translation from animal models to humans needs clarification with regard to neurobiological pathways and operationalization of emotion 5658.in humans a pilot study on temperament of korean adults found an enterotype dominated by bacteroidaceae to be associ- ated with greater novelty-seeking and reward dependence than an enterotype dominated by prevotellaceae 59. for emotion preclinical data and limited findings with humans support the exploration of psychobiotics psychoactive probiotics that could have targeted cognitive and emotional effects 4157. however the potential for psychiatric interventions is currently unclear 60.proximal social factors such as family structure and interac- tions with other people and animals may also influence the com- position of our microbiome 3961. in humans recent findings indicate that spore-forming bacteria of the gut comprise a substan- tial proportion of the intestinal microbiota and evidence a highrate of turnover suggesting that spores are an important mech- anism by which colonization between humans may occur over time and distance 62. in rhesus monkeys greater similarity of gut microbial community structure has been observed within prescribed social groups compared with between groups 63. some have suggested that social bonds and relationships among primates have evolutionary significance for survival through the associated sharing of microbial communities 64. conversely social disruption and other forms of stress in animals may affect composition of the gut microbiota and accordingly immune function 5065. finally animal models of autistic spectrum disorders suggest that behaviors associated with sociability may be affected by health of the gut microbiota and its immedi- ate host environment 5666.intermediate systemsa range of factors may be considered at the intermediate scale of analysis that operate between the proximal-level systems just described and the most distal.

horizontal gene transfer also takes place between less related organisms initiated by envi- ronmental changes that call for adaptation 68. this seems to occur within the gut and across humans animals and geographic space supporting a broad ecological understanding of the human microbiome 69. diet may be one source of gene transfer from nonhuman to human microbes accounting for our evolved ability to break down a range of carbohydrates 70.in the psychological domain dietary behavior seems to be a key determinant of the gut microbiome although these effects are con- founded by host genetics and a range of social and geographic factors 7172. consistent with other known health risks diets high in fat versus plant-based high-fiber diets tend to be differentially associated with the composition and function of the gut micro- biota as well as obesity and inflammatory markers 7173. in one study high protein consumption and intense exercise habits among professional rugby players were associated with greater diversity of the microbiota compared with nonathlete controls 74. although the independent effects of diet and activity on diversity remain unclear some types and intensities of physical activity may affect the gut and intestinal microbiota in ways that could affect risk for intestinal inflammatory problems 75.spanning many individual behaviors psychosocial factors can have important influences on the microbiota.

decades of research on the brain-gut axis have elucidated bidirectional relations between the central nervoussystem and the digestive system with implications for cognitive and emotional states functional and inflammatory gastrointestinal disorders obesity and even anorexia 42. in this context the gut microbiota may be integral to fundamental processes including brain development and function 4143 and may play a signifi- cant role in metabolic processes obesity and eating-related behav- ioral propensities in animals and humans 44-48.the microbiota also seems to play a role in the development and regulation of the immune system relevant to inflammation autoimmune diseases and neurological conditions 394950. research is also relating diseases of mucosal inflammation of the gut and the lungs suggesting a common lung-gut axis whereby common clinical targets may be identified within the gut microbi- ota for seemingly distinct inflammatory conditions such as irritable bowel disease and asthma 51. other systems are also are ripe for investigation such as a role of the gut microbiota in cardiovascular function and health 52 particularly given the role of the vagus nerve in both brain-gut communication and cardiac regulation.these physiological systems are integrally related to other proximal systems in the psychological e.g.

indeed there is growing consideration of dysbiosis imbalancedisruption of the microbiota and critical host- microbiota interactions in disease rather than the simple pres- ence or absence of specific taxa 8-1132.host genes may interact with other factors to influence compo- sition of the gut microbiome 3334 and in turn microbes may exert epigenetic effects 35 and shape their immediate environ- ments in profound ways by producing biofilms and metabolites 36. such behaviorstraits may occur for reasons that are evolu-tionarily significant or not to the niche construction of the microbe's environment and that have a range of social implica-tions for the microbe itself and other organisms that may be bene- ficial or detrimental across time and locations within the host 36. this can affect the survival and function of microbes patho- gens and host systems through immune and other mechanisms re- lated to microbial community structure and function 3637. for example interactions between bacterial and fungal species and their resulting biofilms have recently been identified that may re- late to the inflammatory processes of crohn disease 32.the complexity of these host-microbe interactions and their consequences are profound affecting resistance to pathogens 9 biopsychosocial ecology and the microbiome figure 1. biopsychosocial bps ecology of the human microbiome and health.

in particular wide- spread antibiotic use and misuse are a global problem 76 that rep- resents one of the most significant assaults on the integrity of the human microbiome 77 and broader microbial ecosystems 78. in 2010 us pharmacies sold 73620748816 doses of antibiotic medications 79. however most antibiotics globally are used on food animals with conservative estimates at more than 60000 tons in 2010 alone this amount is expected to nearly double by biopsychosocial ecology and the microbiome year 2030 because of the growth of intensified agricultural prac- tices in developing nations 80. although research is needed to quantify the effect on the human microbiome one can appreciate that this scale of usage likely has significant implications for microbiomes of humans animals and the soils of our broader environment 78. excessive and inappropriate use also accel- erates the emergence of resistant bacteria 81 relevant to our built and natural living environments 78 which may influence the human microbiome and risk for infectious disease.the increasing practice of cesarean deliveries in many devel- oped societies may be considered another significant intermediate- level factor contributing to altered microbiomes in those populations over recent decades 77. whereas vaginal delivery initiates nor- mal microbial colonization from the mother at birth infants born surgically show a different microbial colonization that may predict a range of health risks into adulthood including asthma and allergic dis- eases 82. although these birth delivery effects on the microbiome may be somewhat modifiable 83 much is not known with regard to the extent of differences in microbial composition and how it may change or fully affect health over time.

in this regard the gut microbiota may be both affected by stress and emotion and play a critical role in emotional experience early formation of physiological stress responses and a range of stress-related pathologies including visceral pain conditions 5354. stress-related neuroendocrine and behavioral responses may affect the gut microbiota through effects on gastrointestinal function metabolism and immunomodulation.

climate that emerge from dynamic nonlinear processes at lower physical or organismic levels 17 the bio- sphere evolves according to the dynamics of its component complex adaptive systems and ecosystems ultimately feeding back to underlying individual-level dynamics 17. likewise emergent properties of microbes such as particular host re- sponses or metabolic processes 18 reach across temporal and spatial scales but they are most immediately the result of interac- tions among underlying organisms and their environment 1819 and reflect the highly communal nature of microbes 20. general models for emergent properties of ecological systems exist 19 and technology to study these systems is ever improving 1821. with the human microbiome advanced modeling approaches may provide insight to the stability and complex dynamics of the microbiota over time 22 and help us begin to appreciate the more complete ecology of the microbiome within the host 23 and the broader context of the natural environment 591314.ecological models of health behavior 24-26 chronic pain27 and human development 28 have advanced our under- standing of the complex determinants of human health across various levels of influence.

in covering multiple bodies of literature we encourage readers to consider the many possibil- ities for developing interdisciplinary research initiatives reflecting this ecological concept.immediatemicro systemsthe human gut microbiota and microbiome more broadly are increasingly appreciated as ecological systems representing the dynamic interplay of human factors e.g.

for the human microbiome con- siderable variability in apparently normal profiles of the gut microbiota can be observed by geographic region 67. varia- tion in exposure across different inhabited physical environ- ments of the host may be one of many determinants of the so-called variable microbiome referring to the set of microbe genes found in some but not all humans versus a core microbiome common to most all humans 5. diversity is inher-ent to the microbial world with microbes evolving verticallywithin genetically related phyla.

the preceding literature suggests that the principles of ecosystems in general 1718120 are important for understanding these dynamic processes 1422. however even in the relatively established field of ecology it is becoming clear how little is known about trends in biodiversity across most life forms when different spatial and temporal scales are considered or the full meaning of changes at these various levels 120. for example average constancy of species richness can hide substantial change in species type over time 120. like- wise in the nascent field of human microbiome research the level of analysis from species to strain can greatly affect conclu- sions regarding stability of the microbiota over time 84. there- fore what we observe at the micro level of analysis in a particular laboratory or clinical investigation may be of limited generaliz- ability without considering broader contextual and temporal influ- ences on those observations 121.modeling the complex ecology of the gut microbiome is chal- lenging in itself 23 so the additional consideration of a vast number of interacting broader contextual factors is a formidable task that should be considered an aspirational goal if medicine is to make durable progress in this area.

of particular interest here may be potential nonlinear dose-response associations between level of environmental exposure to key old friend organisms and health outcomes 13.in the epidemiology literature current and developing analytic approaches study design considerations and readily available statistical tools have been outlined to study the relations of inter- mediate and distal factors with the microbiome 121128. to address the primary challenge of large observation-to-variable ratios big data and machine learning approaches that consider context in microbiome research 11 and that are used commer- cially for pattern recognition and prediction such as association rule mining may prove useful for identifying associations across myriad variables for further study 121. open access data shar- ing and software will also be vital for progress 15. these are increasingly available 84127 and could eventually includecrowdsourcing to address current limitations on sampling and geographic reach 21. beyond obtaining big data there have been calls for funding sources and mechanisms that are broad in scope along with a set of common standards and a centralized data framework to merge findings from many levels of scale that are currently fragmented across investigators funding sources and methods 21121129.on the applied side progress in developing reliable interven- tions and public health efforts are also challenged by the tremen- dous variability across individuals age culture and geography that make defining normal gut microbiota or dysbiosis elusive 130. this variability small sample sizes typical of intervention studies and correlational study designs are again significant hurdles toovercome in developing clinical applications 15121131. how- ever according to one recent review advances can be seen in optimizing the microbe-host nexus through microbe nutrient input e.g.

for example demand for traditional antibiotics may be reduced through selective use and novel disease prevention efforts 81. modifying current antibiotic use will require that we address a range of distal psychosocial factors including economics awareness education and training that determine use 99. a range of alternatives to antibiotics also exist in variousstages of development--such as vaccines antibodies probiotics and immune stimulation--that may help prevent or treat infec-tions in ways that do not encourage resistant organisms 81100. although these options are promising the success or failure in developing them is rooted in distal-level factors such as interna- tional cooperation funding and economic forces 100101.synthesis with contemporary health challengesthe preceding literature indicates that the microbiota may play a significant role in both noncommunicable and communi- cable disease.

pollution smoking etc as well as food type and quality 7278. at the proximal and imme- diate levels of analysis individuals with low socioeconomic status may be particularly vulnerable considering their associ- ated elevations in stress 102 and the effects of stress on the microbiota that may relate to health over time 5055.socioeconomic burden is also known to affect disease through a range of proximal-level physiological processes including inflam- mation 103 which tend to vary across demographic groups 104. urbanization in general is associated with impoverished micro- bial exposure from natural environments which may contribute to greater prevalence of chronic inflammatory conditions among city dwellers 1339. however risk of inflammatory disease is pronounced among urban residents living in poverty.

illustrated by design dedeaux.and relating to perhaps most or all biological health processes from early development to old age 6. so interconnected are these processes and systems that the microbiome has been consid- ered an organ 38 or--when understood as a composite of the microbiome human genome and metabolic processes-- a human supraorganism 5. this fundamental integration of human and microbial processes arguably reflects how the microbial world has coevolved with and shaped the humanimmune system 39 as it has the broader physical environment40 and life itself over billions of years 41.proximal systemsproximal to the immediate micro level ecology are the systems that directly affect and are affected by these integrated human- microbial processes.

stephen a. forbes 1887 1introductionfour decades ago george engel's 2 provocative treatise on a new biopsychosocial bps model initiated the contemporary evo- lution in western medicine from a largely reductionist biomedical paradigm toward wide acceptance of biological psychological and social influences on health as reflected in the growing empha- sis on behavioral and social sciences in the medical college admis- sion test and the training of physicians more generally 34. now rapidly expanding research on the human microbiome the genome of all microorganisms living in and on us and the micro- biota the collection of the microorganisms themselves 5 with their wide-ranging health implications could suggest that medicine is undergoing yet another significant evolution or perhaps even revolution 6. at the core of this emerging literaturehas been a proliferation of knowledge gained from animal and human studies examining the microbiota of the brain-gut axis in particular for its richness and apparent role in mental and physical processes related to healthy functioning and disease 7.as with the historic origins of the biomedical model this emerging trend is again largely focused on the microbial world though now understood as exceedingly more vast and complex.

