we posit that integrative approaches to teasing apart diet-microbe-host interactions will help bridge between experimental data sets and conceptual models and will be of value in formulating predictive models.keywords gut microbiome digestion diet metabolite modeling host feedbackintroductionboth diet and the gut microbiome are strongly implicated in the global epidemics of chronic diseases including obesity and diabetes cardiovascular disease cancer autoimmunity allergies and asthma -.

although the host can impact microbial nutrition via these routes the outcome is interdependent with diet host-excreted intestinal nitrogen increases with dietary protein content  and mucin-derived nutrients increase in importance under conditions of fasting or low caloric intake .in summary multiple diet dimensions influence processes impacting community state.

the essential role of host processes was demonstrated through intra-peritoneal anti-inflammatories that reversed chronic microbial changes despite mice continuing the high-fat diet .characteristic inter-individual microbiome differences reflect resilience in community structure tendency to return to a baseline state and long-term dietary shifts can trigger tipping points in this baseline.

for instance studies of ileostomy patients found that only 17 of dietary protein 2 of digestible dietary starch and 5 of dietary fat reaches the colon .

by adopting a nutritional geometry experimental design where macronutrient dimensions of diet are systematically varied   we recently demonstrated that broad microbial responses to diet can be predicted at the macronutrient level .microbiome dimensions that impact the hostmicrobially produced molecules mpms exert a range of effects on the host some represent nutritional resources bioactive molecules influence developmental or regulatory networks and effectors directly manipulate host cells.

8538.doi over the last 20 years a sizeable body of research has linked the microbiome and host diet to a remarkable diversity of diseases.

thus understanding microbiome impact on host health requires integration of microbial species traits and cell activity with community structure and diet context.

although this has proven controversial and the extent of distinction between proposed enterotypes is dis- puted a rapidly emerging body of evidence demonstrates that microbial communities exhibit the property of multi-stability   .a recent study modulating the gut microbiome in obesity through diet revealed populations and guilds through co-abundance and co-occurrence patterns in metagenome data .

in summary the ability to explain emergent outcomes of diet modulation was enhanced by describing the community in terms of interaction groups as well as species.predictive integrative modelingthe full potential of conceptually modeling the diet-host-gut microbiome axis lies in its integration with platforms that predict system responses to given interventions  .

annu rev med 2011 62361-80. doaron-wisnewsky j clement k. the gut microbiome diet and links to cardiometabolic and chronic disorders.

diet rapidly and reproducibly alters the human gut microbiome.

yet unifying principles of microbiome assembly or function at levels required to rationally manipulate a specific individual's microbiome to their benefit have not emerged.

 and the school of environmental and life sciences the charles perkins centre the university of sydney sydney nsw australiaedited bydavid dombrowicz institut national de la sante et de la recherche medicaleinserm francereviewed bychristopher alan jolly university of texas at austin usa biswapriya biswavas misratexas biomedical research instituteusacorrespondencemark n. read andrew j. holmes specialty section this article was submitted to nutritional immunologya section of the journal frontiers in immunologyreceived 31 january 2017accepted 21 april 2017published 08 may 2017citation read mn and holmes aj 2017 towards an integrativeunderstanding of diet-host-gut microbiome interactions.

many microbes are dependent on co-operative metabolic interactions to completely meet their nutrient requirements indicated by black arrows.metabolites that are the product of growth-related metabolism of dietary nutrients can be produced at high levels and may show positive feedback to diet.

as such we postulate that dietary nitrogen content will have more predictable impacts on community thatare global across all diet conditions and that conversely altera- tions to mac profile will impact a more select subset of microbes within a community namely those with the capacity to utilize the altered substrates.host physiology also influences the availability of microbial carbonenergy and nitrogen sources largely through dead epithelial cells mucin and uric acidurea secretions.

