these results imply that the hk banknotes harbor various types of bacteria from different environmental niches and provide one more piece of evidence that due to their high circulation banknotes may be a good representation of the most prominent members of a city's microbiome.taxonomic and functional comparison of banknotes and other environmental samples based on shotgun metagenomesto investigate in higher resolution the taxonomic composition and functionality of microbes present in banknotes compared to other environmental samples we retrieved publicly available shotgun metagenomic sequencing data from indian banknotes hk water samples and hk marine sediment samples.

when comparing the bacterial community of hk banknotes with other hk environmental samples including water and marine sediment we revealed that hk banknotes cover nearly 50 of total genera found in all the environmental samples implying that banknotes harbor diverse bacteria originated from a variety of environments.

however much more intensive sampling is needed to confirm whether this pattern of homogenization could be confirmed.16s rrna-based comparison of hk banknotes and other environmental samplesto highlight the unique characteristics of hk banknotes we performed a comparison with other hk environmental samples collected from residents' palms wilkins et al.

the accumulation curve of the genera richness among different environmental samples reveals that the hk banknotes contribute around half of the total genera in all hk environmental samples figure 2b figure s5.

furthermore we noticed that around 60 of identifiable genera from the hk banknotes were unique compared with the palm and mtr air samples nearly half of the genera found on the hk banknotes were unique compared to the water and marine sediment samples figure 2c.

regarding the number of potential pathogenic species there is no significant difference between the two groups the hk banknote samples harbor 164 potential pathogens while indian banknote samples contain 170. the most abundant potential pathogen among the hk banknotes was p. acnes 4.90 on average which is a dominant skin commensal and opportunistic pathogen as well.

lastly we integrated our biological data with different city network metrics such as connectivity analysis population densities and physical locations to investigate the influence of anthropogenic factors on the microbiome that we are exposed through the daily handling of banknotes.resultsmicrobial community on hk banknoteshk 20 notes were collected from cashiers at 12 hospitals and three metro stations located in three geographical regions of hk hk island hki kowloon kl new territories nt figure 1a.

2015.we also observed that the hk banknotes harbor more diverse bacteria compared with other hk environmental samples.

for example the discovery of the higher abundance of marine bacteria in the hk banknotes than indian banknotes figure s8 is due to the fact that hk is surrounded by the ocean while new delhi where the indian samples were collected is in central india.

the first 15 samples are the hk banknotes followed by the mtr air palms marine sediments and water samples.

further analysis of dissimilarity between samplegroups in terms of the args abundance revealed that the args compositional difference between the two-banknote groups was insignificant p  0.5039 anosim while the args compositions of banknotes samples were significantly different with the hk water and marine sediment samples p  0.0001 anosim figure 4c.

thiopeptide is a sulfur-rich highly modified heterocyclic peptide antibiotic drug and oligosaccharide is known as a substrate for some bacteria to produce short-chain fatty acids.a comparative analysis of hk and indian banknoteswe subsequently investigated the differentially abundant species between the hk and indian banknotes.

in this study we have assessed the bacterial community composition the prevalence of pathogenic bacteria the abundance and dissemination potential of args of hk banknotes and evaluated the commonalities and differences of the taxonomic and functional characteristics of the bacterial community between banknotes and other local environmental samples.

we further identified the genera with significantly different abundance between the hk banknotes and other environmental samples.

we found 18 genera including vibrio pseudomonas paracoccus haemophilus bradyrhizobium acinetobacter corynebacterium and enterobacter that were enriched in the hk banknote samples p  0.05 t-test.

