cellulase activity of final extracts dropped gradually to2.1 - 1.0 fpu g-1 dm on day 10 to increase after day 13 to final values of 10 fpu g-1 dm on day 18 statistically similar to the yields obtained with the sb90 strategy.one of the main goals while developing these strategies was to achieve a steady cellulase production and biological activity sour.

however in this case the main goal was to extract the maximum cellulase activity and thus these percentages of degradation are acceptable.lack of standardized cellulase activity determination makes difficult to provide a proper comparison with reported results.

similar results were observed in batch experiments performed in 4.5 l bioreactors where a process time of 48 h was fixed for maximum sour and cellulase production.sequential batch operationthe operation of bioreactors working under sb90 and sb50 condi- tions is presented in respectively.

as previously discussed the maxi- mum cellulase activity coincided with the maximum sour when using compost as inoculum.according to sour profiles a reduction in lag phase was accom- plished and global biological activity was higher with the specialized biomass obtained at the end of the sequential operation fermentation final batches compared to the first batch using compost as inoculum.

in summary the proposed process presents the following economic advantages the use of organic wastes instead of pure sub- strates saving the investment and the operating costs related to steril- ization saving the costs of producing inoculum for each batch since fermented solids from one batch are re-used to inoculate the following batch the potential use of the multienzymatic extracts without addi- tional purification steps.

towards a competitive solid state fermentation cellulases production from coffee husk by sequential batch operation and role ofmicrobial diversityalejandra cerda  teresa gea  m carmen vargas-garcia  antoni sanchez a gicom research group department of chemical biological and environmental engineering school of engineering edifici q universitat autonoma de barcelona 08193 bellaterrabarcelona spainb unit of microbiology department of biology and geology cite ii-b university of almeria agrifood campus of international excellence ceia3 04120 almeria spainh i g h l i g h t scellulases were produced by solid-state fermentation ssf of coffee husk ch.ssf performed consistently by sequen- tial batch operation to produce 10 fpu g dry mass.fermented solids from one batch wereused to inoculate the following batch.compost was used as initial inoculum to obtain a specialized inoculum.bacteria from compost and fungi from ch thrived through the fermentation.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 14 october 2016received in revised form 20 february 2017accepted 22 february 2017available online 3 march 2017keywordssolid-state fermentation cellulasessequential batch reactor microbial diversity organic wastesa b s t r a c t the cost of cellulases is the main bottleneck for bioethanol production at commercial scale.

further re- search will focus on the improvement of cellulase production the process scale-up and the optimization of cellulase extraction by com- paring different downstream processing strategies.supplementary data to this article can be found online at .acknowledgmentsthis research has been funded by the spanish ministerio de economia y competitividad project ctm2015-69513-r. alejandra cerda wants to thank to universitat autonoma de barcelona for her pre-doctoral grant.

these facts suggest the possibility to adapt a complex inoculum to de- grade lignocellulosic materials in an easily scalable process to provide a standardized cellulase production process.

however cellulase activity obtained in this work is located in therange of reported researches between 1 and 25 fpu g-1 dm for small bioreactors under sterile and mesophilic conditions  .as it can be observed in  similar final cellulase yields were obtained for both strategies.

in this figure it can be ob- served that the maximum cellulase activity was detected during the most active biooxidative stage of the process as other authors have also stated .

3. process follow up of sequential batch operation sb90 of coffee husk for cellulase production.

4. process follow up of sequential batch operation sb50 of coffee husk for cellulase production.

the remaining su- pernatant was used for cellulases activity determination  .enzymatic activitythe cellulase activity was measured according to the iupac filter paper assay .

fermentations were performed with a total weight of 1.2 kg per batch.in a first batch experiment maximum cellulases activity was achieved in 48 h and thus the solid retention time srt was established in 48 h. after this first 48 h batch two fermentations were compared in parallel as sequential batches by means of two different operation strategiesstrategy sb90 90 of the wet fermented solids were removed from the reactor at the end of the fermentation every 48 h and used as product for final analysis.

after the first substrate change the sour achieved at the end of the batch 24 h was 68 lower although cellu- lase activity was statistically similar to that of the initial batch.

