Top 10 upregulated genes in D5 H. polygyrus infected Map3k8--mice relative to WT mice.Fold change of the 10 highest expressed genes identified by microarray analysis in the duodenal tissue of D5 H. polygyrus infected Map3k8--mice relative to WT mice was tabulated in the order of decreasing fold change.Map3k8 deficiency in CD11c cells mediates protective immunity to H. polygyrus infectionNext to determine which cellular compartment was responsible for mediating resistance to H. polygyrus in Map3k8--mice we restricted TPL-2 deficiency to cells primarily responsible for expressing the genes upregulated in D5 H. polygyrus infected Map3k8--mice .

This suggested that a CD11c cell-intrinsic function of TPL-2 regulated resistance to H. polygyrus infection.Increased Ccl24 expression in CD11c cells and a concurrent early type-2 memory-like response observed in D5 H. polygyrus infected Map3k8--miceCcl24 was expressed in both H. polygyrus infected WT and Map3k8--mice but was upregu- lated 5.0 fold more in Map3k8--mice compared to WT mice .

The total numbers of ILC2s were unchanged.Ccl24 neutralization reduced early type-2 memory responses and led to decreased resistance to H. polygyrus in Map3k8--miceFinally to determine whether elevated Ccl24 in Map3k8--mice contributed to enhanced type- 2 memory responses and resistance to H. polygyrus we neutralized Ccl24 using anti-Ccl24 antibodies in H. polygyrus infected WT and Map3k8--mice.

polygyrus leading to increased resistance in Map3k8--mice.Increased expression of Ccl24 and genes associated with type-2 memory responses in Map3k8--miceTo identify gene expression differences that might contribute to the reduced larval establish- ment in Map3k8--mice we isolated RNA from duodenal tissue at D5-post H. polygyrus infection of WT or Map3k8--mice.

These results demonstrate a previously unidentified role for TPL-2 in restricting protective Ccl24-dependent pathways dur- ing intestinal H. polygyrus infection.ResultsMap3k8--mice are resistant to Heligmosomoides polygyrus infectionTo test whether TPL-2 contributed to immunity to H. polygyrus we infected WT and Map3k8--mice with 200 H. polygyrus L3 stage larvae.

Following the observation that CD11c cells deficient in Map3k8 mediate resistance to H. polygyrus infection  and the recent observation that elevated Ccl24 from CD11c MHC-II cells in Map3k8--mice con- tributed to enhanced HDM-driven airway allergy  we hypothesized that elevated Ccl24 in Map3k8--mice could be responsible for accelerated resistance to H. polygyrus.

Normalizing these differences by co-housing however did not impact the accelerated resistance observed in Map3k8--mice indicating that differ- ences in the microbial composition between WT and Map3k8--mice were not responsible for resistance to H. polygyrus infection in Map3k8--mice.Previous studies have demonstrated the role of TPL-2 in preventing severe airway allergy   and limiting Th2 mediated immunopathology .

Therefore to determine if Th2 and Treg frequencies and numbers were affected in WT and Map3k8--mice following H. polygyrus infection we crossed Map3k8--mice onto an Il4GFPFoxp3RFP dual-reporter background to simultaneously monitor Th2 and Treg cells during H. polygyrus infection.

In addition CD11c CD11b cells from H. polygyrus infected Map3k8--mice also expressed significantly higher levels of Ear11  Retnla  and had a trend for an increase in the expression of Arg1 and Chil3  compared to WT cells.To determine whether the increased expression of Ccl24 in CD11c CD11b cells was asso- ciated with enhanced cellular influx of CCR3 expressing cells including eosinophils granulo- cytes and lymphocytes - we evaluated the myeloid and lymphoid cell infiltration in the small intestinal lamina propria LP of D5 H. polygyrus infected Map3k8--and WT mice.

Normalization of microbiota between WT and Map3k8--mice had no impact on the observed resistance in Map3k8--mice with fewer worms  and fewer eggs detected in fecal pellets of Map3k8--mice .

