here we used the state-of-the-art metagenomic assembly and binning strategies to reconstruct microbial population genomes directly from a single fmt donorand tracked the occurrence of resulting metagenome- assembled genomes mags in two fmt recipients up to 8 weeks.methodssample collection preparation and sequencingwe collected a total of 10 fecal samples four samples from a single donor d a 30-year-old male and three samples from each of the two recipients r01 a 23- year-old male and r02 a 32-year-old female before and after fmt.

a the 92 mags and their level of detection in four donor samples four inner circles as well as two recipients r01 and r02 before fmt pre-fmt 4 weeks after fmt w4 and 8 weeks after fmt w8.

for instance a recent meta- analysis of 50 peer-reviewed fmt case reports reported 38 potentially transfer-related adverse effects in fmt patients in 35 studies including fever sore throat vomiting abdom- inal pain bowel perforation rhinorrhea transient relapse of uc and cdi and in one case death due to temporary systemic immune response to the applied bacteria besides bacteria fmt can transfer viruses archaea and fungi as well as other agents of the donor host such as colonocytes which may affect the recipient's biology in unexpected ways.

however we lack a sufficient understanding of which microbial populations successfully colonize the recipient gut and the widely used approaches to study the microbial ecology of fmt experiments fail to provide enough resolution to identify populations that are likely responsible for fmt-derived benefits.methods we used shotgun metagenomics together with assembly and binning strategies to reconstruct metagenome-assembled genomes mags from fecal samples of a single fmt donor.

recipient samples originated from time points pre-fmt 4 weeks after fmt and 8 weeks after fmt while four samples from the donor were collected on four separate days 2 weeks prior to the transplant- ation.

similarity percentage analysis simper of the taxonomic profiles suggested that the two recipients were 79.60 similar after fmt and that bacteroides was responsible for the largest fraction 32.42 of difference between recipient samples of pre-fmt and 4 weeks after fmt.

there were no significant changes in the recipients' taxonomic pro- files between w4 and w8 after fmt permanova pseudo-f  0.221 p  0.631. these results show that ourrecipients who were outliers to the hmp cohort be- came more like the hmp cohort following fmt.

this was particularly apparent for r01 for which the taxonomic profiles before and after fmt at w8 were highly dissimilar r2 of 0.122 yet became more alike after the subtraction of reads matching to donor mags r2 of 0.634. taking into account the fact that 92 mags are only a subset of the 444 bins we ini- tially recovered from the donor we tested whether these trends remained similar when all 444 metagenomic bins were used for removal of short reads and con- firmed that the outcome did not change additional file  figure s4.discussionhere we demonstrate that shotgun metagenomics can facilitate the tracking of bacterial populations in fmt experiments by linking their colonization trends to gen- omic contexts through metagenome-assembled genomes mags.

in addition taxonomic annotation of a large fraction of mags in our study did not resolve to a genus name which suggests that bacterial populations that have not yet been characterized in culture collections may be playing important roles in fmt treatments.although a substantial number of studies report success- ful medical outcomes of fmt experiments  a complete understanding of this procedure from the perspective of microbial ecology is still lacking.

bacterial populations with high-vertical transmission rates had lower number of genes related to sporulation these observations suggest that excluding non-spore forming bacteria may decrease the efficacy of fmt therapies dueto limited colonization efficiency and deeper insights into the functional basis of microbial colonization require further study.conclusionsusing bacterial populations associated with positive health outcomes and that harbor high colonization properties may result in more effective therapies com- pared to cleansing all but spore-forming bacteria to avoid the transfer of pathogens in fmt experiments.

microbiome 2017 550doi 10.1186s40168-017-0270-xtracking microbial colonization in fecal microbiota transplantation experiments via genome-resolved metagenomicssonny t. m. lee1 stacy a. kahn13 tom o. delmont1 alon shaiber1 ozcan c. esen1 nathaniel a. hubert1 hilary g. morrison2 dionysios a. antonopoulos1 david t. rubin1 and a. murat eren12abstractbackground fecal microbiota transplantation fmt is an effective treatment for recurrent clostridium difficile infection and shows promise for treating other medical conditions associated with intestinal dysbioses.

we then used metagenomic mapping to track the occurrence and distribution patterns of donor mags in two fmt recipients.results our analyses revealed that 22 of the 92 highly complete bacterial mags that we identified from the donor successfully colonized and remained abundant in two recipients for at least 8 weeks.

although our dataset showed a link between taxonomy and the colonization ability of a given mag we also identified mags that belong to the same taxon with different colonization properties highlighting the importance of an appropriate level of resolution to explore the functional basis of colonization and to identify targets for cultivation hypothesis generation and testing in model systems.conclusions the analytical strategy adopted in our study can provide genomic insights into bacterial populations that may be critical to the efficacy of fmt due to their success in gut colonization and metabolic properties and guide cultivation efforts to investigate mechanistic underpinnings of this procedure beyond associations.keywords fecal microbiota transplantation colonization metagenomics metagenome-assembled genomes correspondence equal contributors1section of gastroenterology hepatology and nutrition department of medicine university of chicago medicine chicago il usa2josephine bay paul center for comparative molecular biology andevolution marine biological laboratory woods hole 02543 ma usa full list of author information is available at the end of the articlec the authors.

the creative commons public domain dedication waiver applies to the data made available in this article unless otherwise stated.backgroundfecal microbiota transplantation fmt the transference of fecal material from a healthy donor to a recipient has gained recognition as an effective and relatively safe treat- ment for recurrent or refractory clostridium difficile infection cdi -.

its success in treating cdi sparked interest in investigating fmt as a treatment for other medical conditions associated with intestinal dysbiosis such as ulcerative colitis - crohn's disease cd 1- irritable bowel syndrome ibs   and others including metabolic syndrome  neurodevelop- mental  and autoimmune disorders .

