either use a currently unknown survival mechanism or are extremely efficient at colonization and can readily become established in new hosts to which they are in close proximity.534  september 2017  volume 15reviews a environmental survival mechanisms of the intestinal microbiotasporulationaerotoleranceo2viable but non-culturableb cladogram of the intestinal microbiota and spore-forming abilityporphyromonadaceae b rikenellaceae bbacteroidaceae bcoriobacteriaceae aenterobacteriaceae plachnospiraceae fbifidobacteriaceae aerysipelotrichaceae f enterococcaceae fbacillaceae flactobacillaceae fveillonellaceae f peptostreptococcaceae fclostridiaceae fruminococcaceae ffigure 2  environmental survival mechanisms and sporulation transmission dynamics of the intestinal microbiota.

science 336 1255-1262 2012.this review uses ecological metacommunity theory to provide a framework to understand how the intestinal microbiota is assembled and to predict how it responds to disturbances.lee s. m. et al.

22 267-274 2014.this review highlights the importance of a multidisciplinary approach that combinesmetagenomic sequencing bioinformatics and culturing to study the human intestinal microbiota.li s. s. et al.

we conclude by reflecting on how modern human health regimes may be adversely affecting the transmission of healthpromoting intestinal bacteria.routes of transmissionmost of our knowledge on the transmission mechanisms used by intestinal bacteria is derived from the study of pathogen transmission this provides a conceptual framework to begin to understand commensal transmis sion21.

a healthy adult has a broadly sta ble and resilient intestinal microbiota compared with an infant whose intestinal microbiota is still developing7275.

nevertheless the full extent of the transmission of commensal intestinal bacteria through water is currently unknown.social groomingcleaning and grooming carried out by animals particularly primates on other individuals in their community which has hygienic and social roles.horizontal gene transferthe transfer of genetic material between different strains or species that occurs independently of vertical transmission during replication.probioticslive microorganisms that when administered in adequate amounts confer a health benefit to the host.indicator microorganisms microorganisms that are used to assay hygiene levels of foods or water in which the quantity of the microorganisms present is inversely related to the quality or hygiene level ofthe product being tested.structured and influenced by their diet the microorgan isms that are carried in food can also contribute to the intestinal microbiota78.

recently it was observed that many traditional rural hunter-gatherer societies and agrarian groups that follow nonwestern social behaviours and do not commonly use antibiotics or disinfectants have a more diverse intestinal microbiota that includes bac terial species that are now absent from the intestinal microbiota of developed world populations132133.any perturbation in an individual that eliminates certain bacterial species or selects for some at the expense of other species will prevent further onward transmission to other hosts70134.

indeed a study in which the intestinal micro biotas of individuals who resided in either the united states or traditional agrarian societies in papua new guinea were compared attributed a lower a-diversity within and higher b-diversity between individuals in the united states cohort to decreased interhost microbial transmission136.in addition to the observed decrease in the diversity of the intestinal microbiota in western societies an increase in autoimmune and allergic diseases in the developed world has been observed70137138.

the cumulative potential impact of this new field of biotherapeutics and functional foods is immense particularly as the health effect of the intestinal microbiota extends beyond intestinal diseases to immune development and our general wellbeing2.at a broader level changes in living practices can promote the transmission of and colonization by healthassociated commensals at the expense of pathogen colonization.

healthy donors who have no history of intestinal disorders or recent antibiotic treatment will typically have a diverse intestinal microbiota that exhibits high colonization resistance.

figure is adapted with permission from ref.4 wiley.conclusions and future perspectivesthe factors that influence our intestinal microbiota are becoming more apparent partly owing to technological advances in microbiology genomics and bioinformatics and partly owing to the realization that assembling and maintaining a healthy intestinal microbiota may depend notonly onour diet lifestyle choices and general health but also on the microbiota and the health of others.

38 996-10472014.this study provides a detailed description and phylogeny of more than 1000 cultured species from the intestinal microbiota.eckburg p. b. diversity of the human intestinal microbial flora.

anaerobe 21 39-42 2013.hug l. a. et al.

14 685-690 2013.chow w.-h. et al.

16 1024-1033 2014.koenig j. e. et al.

