bacterial communities from insect-pollinated species were more similar to each other than to bacterial communities from wind-pollinated species suggesting perhaps an influence of pollinators on pollen bacterial community composition see section .

vertical transmission of bacterial via seed and pollen likely occurs as bacteria have been identified inside the seed of many different plant species figure a. endophytes that are consistently transferred across generations must have a route from seeds to reproductive organs either via xylem vessels or via the shoot apical meristem that differentiates into reproductive organs figure c. soil is considered the dominant environment from which bacterial endophytes originate  and soil-to-root is the best-studied horizontal transmission route.

2014 27 30-37.  truyens s. weyens n. cuypers a. vangronsveld j. bacterial seed endophytes genera vertical transmission and interaction with plants bacterial seed endophytes.

mcletchie s. knight r. fierer n. spatial variability in airborne bacterial communities across land-use types and their relationship to the bacterial communities of potential source environments.

reviewtransmission of bacterial endophytesanna carolin frank  jessica paola saldierna guzman and jackie e. shayschool of natural sciences university of california merced merced ca 95340 usa j.p.s.g.

a better understanding of bacterial endophyte transmission routes and modes will benefit studies of plant-endophyte interactions in both agricultural and natural ecosystems.

where little knowledge is available on endophytes we draw from studies on bacterial plant pathogens to discuss potential transmission routes.

while vertical transfer of bacterial endophytes likely occurs obligate and strictly vertically transferred symbioses with bacteria are probably unusual in plants.

instead plants appear to benefit from the ability to respond to a changing environment by acquiring its endophytic microbiome anew with each generation and over the lifetime of individuals.keywords bacterial endophytes transmission vertical horizontal colonization dispersionintroductionplants are home to a myriad of microbes that live on below- and above-ground plant surfaces called rhizosphere and phyllosphere respectively.

likewise bacterial endophytes in wild plants play important roles in biotic and abiotic stress protection and nutrient acquisition - but in order to understand the significance of those processes at both the individual plant and ecosystem levels we need a better understanding of endophyte colonization routes and dispersal modes.

here we review the known and potential routes of transfer and dispersal of bacterial endophytes and identify gaps in our understanding of how bacteria move among hosts and between the host and the surrounding environment.host-associated microbes can colonize the host horizontally via the environment vertically from within the parent to the offspring or by mixed modes .

vertical transmission of bacterial symbionts from parent to offspring is indeed common in systems where the symbiont provides an indispensable function as in the extensively studied nutritional symbioses between bacteria and insects .

however not all mutualists are obligate and there are many examples of mutualistic horizontally transmitted symbioses .most bacterial endophytes are likely to be horizontally transmitted.

second bacterial endophytes are often generalists as beneficial properties of endophytes can typically transfer to distantly related plants .

bacterial generalists that infect many different species of plants must move horizontally among them and are unlikely to be strictly vertically transmitted.horizontal transmission of beneficial bacteria may be in the plant's best interest.

