effective net-specific growth rates were deter- mined from the slope of pressure accumulation data plot- ted against fermentation time of 3 x replicate cultures during the phase of exponential gas accumulation.rna isolation for transcriptome acquisitionrna was isolated from growing fungal cultures during the exponential growth phase using the qiagen rneasy mini kit qiagen valencia ca as previously described using the plant and fungi protocol with liquid nitro- gen grinding and on-column dnase digest .

the large amount of unannotated transcripts reflects a lack of both sequence availability and biochemical knowledge of the anaerobic gut fungi and other primitive clades compared to the higher fungi.the transcriptome of c. churrovis was also aligned and compared to the transcriptomes of the rhizoid-forming fungi anaeromyces robustus if 551676 neocallimastix californiae if 551675 and piromyces finnis if 551677 using a nucleotide blast blastn.

further- more the activity on cmc xylan and pectin demon- strates the wide range of cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic enzyme activities as determined from transcriptomics.conclusionsamong anaerobic gut fungi the caecomyces genus rep- resents an interesting opportunity to identify the role of gut fungal enzymes in their native microbiome in the absence of extensive invasive rhizoidal growth.

priority was placed on identification of these enzymes as they are critical for the degradation of plant material a feature of anaerobic gut fungi that is of interest to exploit for bio-based fueltable 2 transcriptomic comparison of c. churrovis to other anaerobic gut fungitable 3 comparison of cellulose machinery across four gut fungal strainsnumber of transcripts  dockerin containing transcriptsac.

determi- nation of growth of anaerobic fungi on soluble and cellulosic substrates using a pressure transducer.

the rna quality was determined through measurement on an agilent tapestation 2200 agilent santa clara ca to obtain rine scores and the minimum rine score for samples used in transcriptome acquisition was 8.9. the total rna quantity was determined by using qubit fluo- rometric quantitation qubit new york ny using the high sensitivity rna reagents.rna sequencing and transcriptome assemblyrna was pooled prior to generation of the sequencing library using equal quantities of total rna from each growth condition.

this raises the possi- bility that there are differences between the diversity of enzymes employed by rhizoid-forming vs. non-rhizoid- forming fungi andor the mechanisms they use for enzy- matic degradation of lignocellulose.while there is a general lack of genomic information for the neocallimastigomycota recently five complete genomes and transcriptomes have been published for rhizoid-forming anaerobic fungi--two representatives from the piromyces genus one each from anaeromy- ces and neocallimastix  and one from orpinomyces recently reclassified as pecoramyces .

this precludes insight into the enzy- matic machinery of non-rhizoid-forming fungi or the mode of biomass degradation that they favor.here we describe a novel species of non-rhizoid- forming fungi belonging to the caecomyces genus iso- lated from the fecal pellets of a navajo churro sheep collected in 2015. while other caecomyces isolates have been described using morphological and phyloge- netic analyses   including some analysis of the cellulolytic enzyme activity  extensive genomic or transcriptomic sequencing has not been completed.

19981496417-27.schoch cl seifert ka huhndorf s robert v spouge jl levesque ca chen w fungal barcoding c. fungal barcoding consortium author l nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer its region as a universal dna barcode marker for fungi.

while no fungal growth was detected on xylose arabinose and galactose this extra activity may be necessary to break through hemicellu- lose in lieu of the targeted disruption from the rhizoids of the other fungi.

interest- ingly this wealth of sequencing data has revealed that anaerobic fungi can draw from two modes of biomass- degradation via the secretion of freely diffusive enzymes as well as via fungal cellulosomes complexes of enzymes tethered together for synergistic action .

biomass and initiate the formation of new monocentric sporangia.while morphological characterization indicates that the isolated fungal strain is likely a member of the cae- comyces genus anaerobic fungi are often pleomorphic and require phylogenetic analysis of conserved genomic sequences to confirm classification.

it is therefore possible that this limited the ability of the fungus to access and colonize the plant material.as a mechanism to more efficiently degrade plant bio- mass anaerobic gut fungi have been described to form complexes of cazymes fungal cellulosomes addi- tional file  figure s3 bringing the activities of multi- ple enzymes in closer proximity to each other.

dried samples were sputter-coated with conductive car- bon and secondary electron images were obtained with an orion helium ion microscope carl zeiss microscopy peabody ma.growth analysis of c. churrovisgrowth curves of axenic fungal cultures were generated from medium c grown cultures by measuring the pres- sure of fermentation gases during growth which is a precise indirect measure of fungal proliferation .

iden- tification and characterization of anaerobic gut fungi using molecular methodologies based on ribosomal its1 and 18s rrna.

