conducted 16s rrna gene sequencing analysis on fecal and cecal samples from the colonized mice 3 weeks post- transplant and human donors.the authors found that mice colonized with microbiota originating from ibs-d patients with anxiety spent longer amounts of time in the dark compartment during the light-preference test than mice colonized by hcs and ibs-d patients without anxiety as well as longer latency in stepping off an elevated platform in the step-down test indicating these mice had an altered behaviour when colonized with the microbiota of ibs-d patients with anxiety.

gut barrier function was impaired in mice colonized by ibs-d patients' microbiota and the authors found that there was increased ion transport in ibs-d colonized mouse colonic tissue but not jejunal tissue compared to hcs.the cytokine profile of mice colonized with the microbiota of ibs-d patients did not differ from those colonized by hcs.

the most conserved finding has been a decrease in diversity of the gut microbiota 8-12. attempts to identify specific differences in the relative abundances of the gut microbiota of ibs patients have found various results for each study.

this study did not find that the microbiota of hcs and ibs-d patients clustered separately during analysis but an attempt was made to identify organisms that may be linked to ibs-d. again given the numbers in both arms of the study five hcs vs. eight ibs-d patients it cannot be said with certainty if these organisms are associated with the disease state but the physiological changes observed in the mice indicate that human fecal contents can confer ibs-d-like symptoms and behavioural changes.

of the ibs-d patients four were characterized as having anxiety by the hospital anxiety and depression scale hads hads score 11-14 and four ibs-d patients did not have anxiety hadspage 2 of 4score 5-7. eight- to 10-week-old germ-free national institutes of health nih swiss mice were gavaged with stool from either hcs or ibs-d patients with or without anxiety at least ten mice per donor.three weeks after the fmt the mice were assessed for changes in their behaviour using the step-down and light preference tests.

transplantation of fecal microbiota from patients with irritable bowel syndrome alters gut function and behavior in recipient mice.

multiple studieshave been conducted trying to determine if patients with ibs have a microbiota that differs from people without the disease.

there is also the possibility that changes in the gut microbiota in ibs patients may be a result of the syndrome rather than a cause of it as a variety of other factors may predispose someone to develop ibs such as genetics food sensitivities and food poisoning.

faster transit time was observed in mice colonized by the microbiota of ibs-d patients than hcs.

ibs-d and anxiety risks of fmthad a composition of microbiota that was similar but it could not be concluded with certainty if mice colonized by ibs-d or hc patients had differing microbial compositions in their guts.

past research from these authors demonstrated antibiotics administered to mice altered their behaviour 13 and this was the basis for their hypothesis that an altered microbiota could contribute to the psychiatric conditions commonly observed in ibs patients.

it would be interesting to know whether the mice colonized by ibs-d patients truly have increased gastrointestinal transit scores and immune activation or did the mice colonized by hcs have reduced values compared to a germ-free mouse making the ibs-d colonized mice appear elevatedannals of translational medicine vol 5 no 24 december 2017page 3 of 4mice receiving an fmt from the same donor had microbiota compositions that clustered together 3 weeks after fmt.

mice colonized by ibs-d patients with and without anxiety and hcs did not cluster separately during 16s rrna gene sequencing analysis indicating in this analysis that there is not a discrete microbiota pattern associated with ibs-d colonized mice.

transplantation of fecal microbiota from patients with irritable bowel syndrome alters gut function and behavior in recipient mice.

 editorialpage 1 of 4transfer of altered behaviour and irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea ibs-d through fecal microbiota transplant in mouse model indicates need for stricter donor screening criterialaura j. craven12 michael silverman123 jeremy p. burton1241department of microbiology and immunology schulich school of medicine and dentistry western university london on canada 2lawsonhealth research institute london on canada 3department of infectious disease st. joseph's health care london on canada 4division of urology department of surgery schulich school of medicine and dentistry western university london on canadacorrespondence to dr. jeremy p. burton.

