this results in the leaky gut allowing more immunogenic foreign molecules to enter systemic circulation and induce strong immune responses including celiac disease and other autoimmune diseases  .in the light of the close functionality between the human and microbial tgs and the involvement of the former in disease it is possible to suggest the potential involvement of latter in human disease as well.

moreover the same food additive has been suggested as a new environmental trigger and potential inducer of celiac disease  .the prominent features of the mtgs encompass the multitude of functions and properties which may contribute to the potential ptmp capabilities in the human gut lumenmtgs display a limited specificity toward the natural and non-natural acyl-acceptor substrates which broadens the range of modifications involving the gln-containing peptides and proteins  .

transglutaminase 2 and anti transglutaminase 2 autoantibodies in celiac disease and beyond part a tg2 double-edged sword gut and extraintestinal involvement.

a number of studies suggested the importance of mtgs for the survival of microorganisms and these are overviewed in the next section.mtgs are essential for the survival of microorganismsthe human gut microbiota plays an essential role in human health being involved in a number of functions including nutritional metabolic signaling developmental and immune processes in the human body  .

2016. the industrial food additive microbial transglutaminase mimics the tissue transglutaminase and is immunogenic in celiac disease patients.

the production by the host however is detectable with the tgase activity being described for the human jejunum .as a result of the increased use of mtgs in food processing industry the standard western diet now contains large amounts of mtgases     with a maximum daily intake reaching up to 15 mg.assuming the additive effect of the daily intake of 109 viablecells of bifidobacterium bifidum b. longum b. adolescentis or b. infantis taken as probiotics and which secrete mtgs   to the 100 trillion of bacteria constituting the human microbiome with their own mtgs load there is a substantial and continuous presence of mtg activity in the human intestinal lumen.

inhibition of this activity by rnai leads to the overproduction of antimicrobial peptides in the gut to the changes in the composition of gut microbiota and subsequently to the reduced life span of flies.representatives of all three domains of life possess aquantities of mtgs produced in the gut.

these may represent an additional substantial source of mtgs entering the gut lumen.the consequences of elevated concentrations of mtgs are not clear but the tg activities in general have been linked to fibrosis huntington's disease celiac disease and cancer.

since microbial transglutaminases mtgs are functionally similar to the human homologs they may be involved in the human disease provocation.

this suggests the importance of this activity for the phylum representatives for the survival and persistence in the gastrointestinal tract.the industrially engineered and produced mtgs are from the bacteria that are not the integral part of the normal gastrointestinal tract and therefore may have different properties than the endogenously produced enzymes.the additional supply of recombinant mtgs via the processed food increases the luminal concentrations of mtgs thus exerting an additive or potentiating effect on the existing endogenous enzyme equilibrium in the human gut lumen.the consumption of probiotics is increasing worldwide.

1985. human jejunal transglutaminase demonstration of activity enzyme kinetics and substrate specificity with special relation to gliadin and coeliac disease.

transglutaminase 2 and anti transglutaminase 2 autoantibodies in celiac disease and beyond.

food industrial microbial transglutaminase in celiac disease treat or trick.

possible association between celiac disease and bacterial transglutaminase in food processing a hypothesis.

if future research substantiates the present hypothesis it will affect food product labeling food additive policies in the food industry and consumer health education.author contributionsal and ra screened literature analyzed the data and wrote the manuscript.

