for example during the initial 3 h of the symbiosis v. fischeri changes the host gene expression to upregulate a host chitinases which degrades chitin and leaves a chitobiose gradient for v. fischeri to chemotactically migrate through the pores on the surface of the light organ and colonize the crypt spaces.

symbiotic animals also showed an increase in the expression of an extracellular sod and glu- tathione peroxidase under modeled microgravity at 12 h. no significant degs associated with oxidative stress were observed in the gravity controls of either apo- or symbiotic light organs.attenuation of the innate immune and oxidative stress response in symbiotic animals under modeled microgravity by 24 h. apo- and symbiotic animals exposed to modeled microgravity conditions showed extensive differences in significant degs by 24 h. in aposymbiotic animals there was an increase in the number of expressed transcripts associated with the innate immune response in modeled microgravity com- pared to 12 h such as hemocyanin hcy lysozyme lys chitotriosidase chit1ch3l1 cathepsins catk catl gamma-interferon-inducible lysosomal thiol reductase gilt 2. in the gravity controls however the degs associated with the innate immune response at 12 h were no longer expressed in aposymbiotic animals at 24 h. in modeled microgravity the symbiotic animals showed no degs associated with the innate immune and oxidative stress response.

in the absence of the v. fischeri symbiont extended exposures to protease and oxidative stress responses may have negative health effects on the host animal.in summary the use of the e. scolopes - v. fischeri symbiosis provides an ideal platform to examine how healthy beneficial associations with microbes are initiated regulated and potentially altered during space flight.

these results suggest that at hatching the host animal is poised to receive the bacterial signal and that in the absence of v. fischeri the stress of being in a microgravity environment may trigger elements of the innate immune system as an adaptive response.a similar effect was seen regarding the host oxidative stress response in the light organ.

first animals inoculated with v. fischeri aboard the space shuttle showed effective colonization of the host light organ the site of the symbiosis during space flight.

additionally we examined light organ morphology of animals exposed to natural space conditions aboard the space shuttle to demonstrate that v. fischeri can effectively colonize the host light organ rendering it a useful model for microgravity-related studies.

aposymbiotic flight animals were not colonized and showed no hemocyte trafficking into the crypt epithelial spaces 1h.to ensure that colonization of the host light organ under spaceflight conditions was not the product of a high dosage of v. fischeri 1 x 105 cells per ml fsw in lma replicate experiments were conducted using modeled microgravity in a rotary culture system and high aspect ratio vessels harvs over a range of bacterial concen- trations.

the partners were housed within in a liquid mixing apparatus lma instrumentation technology associates downington pa which contains three distinct compartments for the host squid v. fischeri and fixative 2.5 glutaraldehyde in a0.2 m sodium phosphate buffer with 0.14 m sodium chloride ph 7.4. a total of six lmas were flown during the two shuttle missions for a total of three symbiotic animals and three aposymbiotic controls.

d acridine orange stained microgravity of half of a 24 h symbiotic light organ showing bacteria-induced apoptotic cell death and the early stages of regression of the ciliated fields and pores p through which the v. fischeri enters the light organ.e transmission electron micrograph tem of cross section of the light organ showing the entry pores p ciliated ducts d and three crypts spaces cr 1 2 3 in which the v. fischeri b reside.

v. fischeri b and hemocyte- like cells hm are present within crypt space and some show phagocytic activity of v. fischeri inset represents a different micrograph.

for example no production in conjunction with the production of hemocyanin is critical for selection of v. fischeri in the aggregate outside of the light organ whereas ros are detected along the ciliated ducts that v. fischeri have to pass through to reach the crypt spaces.

in symbiotic animals however at 24 h the enriched go terms 3b included nucleotide processing and ion transport activities whereas the depleted go terms were associated with small molecule metabolism and ionanion binding table s1.changes in the innate immune and oxidative stress response in apo- and symbiotic animals under modeled microgravity conditions at 12 h. animals exposed to modeled microgravity conditions for 12 h post hatching showed an increase in the number of genes associated with innate immune responses in both apo- and symbiotic animals primarily transcripts associated with hemocyanin and lysosomal proteases.

no significant expression of the lysozyme or chitotriosidase was observed in symbiotic animals at 12 h when colonization of the light organ has already been established in either gravity or modeled microgravity conditions.there was also an increase in the expression of oxidative stress genes transcripts at 12 h in both apo- and symbiotic animals exposed to modeled microgravity 4 2. for example cuzn superoxide dismu- tase sod genes were enriched in both apo- and symbiotic animals under modeled microgravity conditionsfigure 3. gene ontology go network representing the differentially expressed go categories under modeled microgravity or gravity controls at 24 h. interactive networks of significantly enriched go categories in aposymbiotic a or symbiotic b transcriptomes as well as depleted go categories in aposymbiotic cand symbiotic d animals.

assessing the impact of microgravity on a host organism and its microbiota requires a comprehensive analysis that includes the study of both microbes and their hosts in situ to fully understand the requirements needed to maintain host health in the space environment.to examine the impact of microgravity on beneficial host-microbe interactions in situ the symbiosis between the hawaiian bobtail squid euprymna scolopes and its bioluminescent partner vibrio fischeri has emerged as tractable model for space biology research.

together the results help elucidate the critical role that beneficial microbes may play in maintaining homeostasis andor health of their host organisms during space flight.resultsvibrio fischeri colonize host light organ during spaceflight.

