although we cannot out rule that the plasmid was already present in lineage a or transferred from other constituents of the microbiota the high degree of identity between the plasmids the co-appearance of lineage b and a matching resistance profile is consistent with lineage b transferring its antibiotic resistance plasmid to lineage a.querying sequence databases yielded the clinically important conjugative inci1-type phusec41-1 plasmid of 91942 bp grad et al.

2013 highlighting the wide dissemination of this multiple antibiotic resistance plasmid amongst geographically dispersed e. coli strains.the phusec41-1-like resistance plasmid is costly in vitro but beneficial in vivo of the mouse gutinterestingly the acquisition of the phusec41-1-like resistance plasmid by lineage a was associated with an initial steep drop in population counts from 1010.2 cfug of fecal matter in the 4 week sample to 107.8 cfug in the 2 month sample figure 2a.

in these experiments carriage of the plasmid incurred a cost of 6.3 -1.9 per generation on lineage a. however despite the in vitro fitness cost of plasmid carriage and the lack of obvious selection the lineage persisted in the gut for at least another 4 months showing an increase in cell counts during this time figure 2a.we speculated that while the phusec41-1-like plasmid slowed the growth of lineage a host in vitro these conditions do not reflect the natural habitat of the strains and important environmental factors might contribute to fitness advantage of plasmid-carried genes in vivo.

therefore to assess whether the plasmid provided a fitness advantage in a model gut environment we tested the fitness of the plasmid bearing strain in the mouse gut before and after acquisition of the plasmid.

here we observed that the plasmid-carrying isolate out-competed the plasmid free isolate and that the plasmid conferred a fitness advantage to lineage a in the mouse gut p  0.01 figure 4a.the fact that the lineage a transconjugant survived increased its population counts and exhibited a fitness advantage in vivobut further molecular analysis would be required to elucidate their role in plasmid persistence.

in the mouse gut an average of 10.8 of lineage a population had received the phusec41-1-like plasmid from the lineage b strain at the final day 7 time point indicating that the plasmid is actively conjugating in this environment.in addition phusec41-1 encodes numerous proteins of unknown function that could potentially benefit its host in vivoa large deletion observed in lineage a was associated with an increase in population counts in situafter the acquisition of the phusec41-1-like plasmid a large deletion was detected in lineage a isolates at the 6-month sampling point figure 5. the deletion totaled 100.4 kb aligned to a contiguous region in e. coli strain cft 073 nc004431 and pcr assays confirmed the deletion figure s1.

just as acquisition of plasmid dna can alter cell homeostasis features of the acquired plasmid such as conjugation are known to induce the sos response which can increase the rate of genome rearrangements baharoglu and mazel 2014.incoming lineage c shares an incx plasmid with lineage b and establishes in the gut despite inferior fitness in in vivo experimentslineage c was sampled for the first time at the final 12m sampling time point.

observing the transfer and enrichment of a conjugative antibiotic resistance plasmid along with subsequent genomic events in the absence of antibiotic treatment we performed in vivo fitness assays indicating that this resistance plasmid is maintained in a gut environment despite being costly in vitro.materials and methodsstrain isolation and population countsfecal samples were obtained from an infant enrolled in the allergyflora study nowrouzian et al.

2014. plasmid diagrams depicting read coverage were drawn in r via custom scripts and plasmid ring diagrams were drawn using blast ring image generator brig alikhan et al.

in addition to show contiguity prior to the deletion controls were included to show the occurrence of the deletion only in the lineage a isolate sampled at 6 months.in vitro conjugation assayto test the ability of lineage b to transfer the phusec41-1- like plasmid to the plasmid free lineage a outgrown overnight cultures of two lineages were mixed equally and incubated for12 h. incubations were done at 37c on a solid agar surface aswell as in liquid cultures without shaking.

feces were homogenized in pbs serially diluted and equal amounts were plated on la-cam 25 ugml chloramphenicol selecting for the chromosomal marker la-kan 50 ugml kanamycin selecting for the chromosomal marker and either la-kan amp or la-cam amp 50 ugml kanamycin or 25 ugml chloramphenicol and 100 ugml ampicillin selecting for the phusec41-1 plasmid to determine the number of viable bacterial cells as well as the fraction containing the phusec41-1 plasmid.

2013. contigs from the isolates in this study alignedto phusec41-1 resulted in 99.3 coverage of the plasmid with an average of 99.0 identity figure 3. the alignment also showed that there were no insertions in the transferred plasmid compared to phusec41-1.

to determine whether this decrease related to a fitness cost imposed on lineage a from carrying the resistance plasmid weconducted pair-wise in vitro competition experiments comparing the growth of a lineage a before and after the acquisition of the plasmid namely lineage a 4w and 2m isolates.

2013.we tested the conjugative ability of the plasmid in vitro as well as in vivo of the mouse gut and found that the phusec41-1-like plasmid conjugates at frequencies above 10-6 transconjugantsper donor in all the tested conditions.

upon receiving a foreign plasmid antagonistic interactions between horizontally acquired chromosomal and plasmid factors might lower the fitness of the host e.g.

