when compared to convmicrobiota mice for susceptibility to c. jejuni enteric or gbs patient strains infected humicrobiota mice had 1 10-100 fold increases in c. jejuni colonization of both strains 2 pathologic change in draining lymph nodes but only mild changes in colon or cecal lamina propria 3 significantly lower th1th17-dependent anti-c. jejuni responses 4 significantly higher il-4 responses at 5 but not 7 weeks post infection pi 5 significantly higher th2-dependent anti-c. jejuni responses and 6 significantly elevated anti-ganglioside autoantibodies after c. jejuni infection.

to examine whether the expected microbiota- dependent immune responses resulted in inflammatory changes in the gut assessed by gross pathology histo- pathology and colon homogenate ifng and il-4 levels or elevated anti-ganglioside autoantibody levels deter- mined by plasma antibody elisa we infected bothhumicrobiota and convmicrobiota mice with c. jejuni11168 and c. jejuni 260.94. here we show that infectedhumicrobiota mice had significantly higher levels of c. jejuni colonization demonstrable clinical signs of c. jejuni gastroenteritis and shifts in their adaptive im- mune responses toward a type 2 biased antibody re- sponse with significantly elevated anti-ganglioside autoantibodies when compared to convmicrobiota mice.

in two separate experiments pilot experiment 1 we show that this humicrobiota conferred many changes upon the wt model that previously showed only colonization with no disease after c. jejuni challenge.humicrobiota mice infected with either c. jejuni 11168from a patient with enteritis or c. jejuni 260.94 from a patient with gbs had significant increases in colonization levels compared to infected convmicrobiota mice.

recently probiotics including lactobacillus have been shown to inhibit c. jejuni growth in mice thus probiotic supplementation during the early stages of infection may facilitate clearance of c. jejuni conclusionsthese data demonstrate that humicrobiota altered host- pathogen interactions in infected mice increasing colonization and th-2 and autoimmune responses in a c. jejuni strain-dependent manner.

in all six experimental groups were generated in experiment 1 convmicrobiota tsb inoculated conv-tsbconvmicrobiota c. jejuni 260.94 infected conv-260.94convmicrobiota c. jejuni 11168 infected conv-11168humicrobiota tsb inoculated hu-tsb humicrobiota260.94 infected hu-260.94 and humicrobiota 11168 infected hu-11168.enteric pathogen screeningdna was extracted from feces collected from all mice before experimental inoculation and at necropsy for en- teric pathogen screening as described  in all cases no control mice were positive for c. jejuni pcr using gyra-specific primers also we screened all samples for campylobacter spp.

significant elevations in anti-c. jejuni igg3 responses were seen in convmicrobiota mice given c. jejuni 11168 compared to those given tsb or c. jejuni 260.94 but these responses were minimal fig.

experimentally normal flora of mice play a decisive role in preventing c. jejuni-mediated in- flammation thus raising the question of whether murine models carrying certain human microbiota would show similar susceptibility to enteric disease shown in depleted microbiota models -.c57bl6 il-10 and il-10-- mice function as c. jejuni colonization and colitis models respectively c57bl6 il-10-- mice orally infected with isolates from patients with colitis had significantly upregulated type 1 and 17 but not type 2 cytokines in the colon coincident with infiltration of phagocytes t cells and innate lymphoid cells ilcs anti-c. jejuni antibodies generated in this response were of different isotypes type 1 responses produced igg2c antibodies while type17 responses produced igg2b antibodies.

we chose the c57bl6 model to examine the role of the microbiome in eliciting autoimmunity.to determine if a humanized microbial community is sufficient to alter the host inflammatory and auto- immune response to infection with c. jejuni we infected c57bl6 humanized humicrobiota and conventional microbiota convmicrobiota colonized mice with a c. jejuni enteric disease patient strain 11168 or gbs patient strain 260.94. using an established and robust experimental inoculation system and a defined set of disease indicators -we measured both inflamma- tory and autoimmune endpoints.

both experiments were conducted similarly except that mice were euthanized and necropsied 5 weeks after c. jejuni inoculation in the pilot experiment and 7 weeks after c. jejuni inoculation in experiment 1.pilot experimentfecal microbiotato determine if handling spf v sterile altered the micro- biota of humicrobiota mice we compared the fecal micro- biota of humicrobiota and convmicrobiota mice by qpcr.

no statisti- cally significant differences were detected in these four bacterial groups between humicrobiota mice sham inocu- lated with tryptose soya broth tsb kept under specific pathogen-free spf conditions and humicrobiota mice sham inoculated with tsb kept under sterile conditions additional file figure s1.disease indicatorsto determine if humicrobiota mice were 1 suscep- tible to c. jejuni gastroenteritis and 2 developed c. jejuni strain-specific antibody responses to gbs patient strains in the pilot experiment we infected mice with either strain 11168 from an enteritis pa- tient or strain 260.94 from a gbs patient or tsb sham inoculated them with the vehicle table veterinarians and trained animal handlers monitored mice for clinical signs daily.

c57bl6 wild-type c57bl6 or congenic c57bl6 il-10-deficient c57bl6 il-10-- mice with humanized hu or conventional conv microbiota were inoculated with tsb c. jejuni 260.94 or c. jejuni 11168 and subjected to sterile ster.

a body weight at necropsy b clinical signs c gross pathology at necropsy d number of mice that are culture positive for c. jejuni in cecum or colon and semi-quantitative representation of culturable c. jejuni in e colon and f cecum at necropsy.

c. jejuni 11168 infected c57bl6 genetically wild-type and il-10-- were used as gastroenteritis controls due to their well-characterized reputation as colitis resistant wild-type and colitis susceptible il-10-- c. jejuni could be cultured from mice in all infected groups fig.

in comparison 100 colonization at necropsy was achieved in c. jejuni-in- fected humicrobiota and convmicrobiota wild-type wt mice although the wt and il-10-- mice were both derived from the same source the jackson la- boratory bar harbor ma.mice with humicrobiota had greater th2-dependent igg1 responses to the enteric strain of c. jejuni but lower such responses to the gbs strainto assess specific immune reactivity and cross-reactive antibody responses we measured anti-c. jejuni and anti- ganglioside antibody responses in infected mice by indir- ect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay elisa.

table 2 experimental design experiment 1. c57bl6 genetically wild-type mice with humanized hu or conventional conv microbiota were inoculated with tsb c. jejuni 260.94 or c. jejuni 11168 and subjected to specific pathogen-free spf handling for the duration of the experiment 7 weeks post-inoculationthere was an increased abundance of lactobacillus inconvmicrobiota micefive bacterial orders had an average abundance of 5 or greater in one or more groups of mice bacteriodales bifidobacteriodales clostridiales lactobacillales and erysipelotrichales fig.

