this difference in fdh gene copy number between z. parabailii and z. bailii may be a contributory factor in the difference in their tolerance to lactic acid as our previous study showed that z. parabailii atcc 60483 is more resilient to lactic acid than the z. bailii sensu stricto strains atcc 8766 and atcc 58445t synonymous with clib213t .we searched systematically for other z. parabailii genes assigned to multigene families which have significant expression changes in lactic acid.

nevertheless our observations that the duplicated ho- mologs of dld1 and dld2 are expressed only at a low level in lactic acid and that dld1 shows a statistically significant 2-fold decrease in expression in lactic acid are consistent with the absence of lactic acid consumption by z. parabailii under these conditions  which is a key feature needed for a lactic acid-producing host.

our aim here was to study the transcriptional response of z. parabailii when exposed to a high concentration of lactic acid.we compared the transcriptomes of z. parabailii atcc 60483 cultures grown in the presence and absence of lactic acid 40 g liter-1 at time points 18 h and 42 h specifically chosen to ascertain comparable growth kinetics and exclude growth phase- related bias .

these observations are consistent with the previously reported lack of lactic acid consumption of z. parabailii under microaerobic growth .table 3 z. parabailii differential expression analysisaathe data for the upregulated and downregulated gene categories are the numbers of genes with an adjusted p value of 0.05 and a log2-fold change of 1 or a log2-fold change of 1 respectively between lactic acid and control conditions.

it is intriguing to observe a different expression pattern for those genes in z. parabailii during lactic acid stress but further studies will be necessary to fully characterize the divergence of the roles of the haa1 orthologs in the two species.we found that lactic acid stress induces robust and statistically significant divergent expression responses between the homeologous gene pairs in z. parabailii.

in our previous study we found that z. parabailii atcc 60483 when treated with 40 g liter-1 of lactic acid during microaerobic fermentation of glucose neither consumes the lactic acid nor exhibits a reduction in cell viability although wecould observe acid-induced phenotypic and morphological changes .

in summary z. parabailii has a slight tendency to express its a genes more highly than its b genes and this tendency is maintained under lactic acid stress but the magnitude of this tendency is small compared to the grossly increased divergence of expression levels between homeologs that occurs under lactic acid stress.our method of high-stringency mapping of rna-seq reads to a high-quality genome sequence detected transcriptional profiles of homeologous gene pairs even where the gene pairs were highly similar.

validation of these observations awaits the development of better molecular tools for manipulation of z. parabailii but our work nevertheless represents a significant step toward engineering this nonconventional yeast to produce lactic acid.the toxicity of lactic acid and weak acids in general involves dissipation of the ph gradient at the plasma membrane .

haa1 has been reported to be a transcriptional activator of genes in response to both acetic acid and lactic acid in s. cerevisiae  and in response to acetic acid in z. bailii lactic acid was not investigated  .

in addition z. parabailii modulates the transcription of genes related to the cell wall in agreement with our previous data.resultstranscriptional profile of z. parabailii homeolog pairs and duplicated genes in lactic acid stress.

after normalizing and filtering the raw rna-seq read counts we detected expression for 95 of the z. parabailii genes under at least one condition including 36 genes that were transcribed only in lactic acid and 31 that were tran- scribed only under control conditions  see tables s1 and s2 in the supple- mental material.table 1 general overview of the z. parabailii transcriptional profileaathe numbers of genes in each category of expression are shown for each condition.

thus amplifications of fdh-like genes by gene duplication have occurred sepa- rately in z. parabailii and z. rouxii and in the former species they are highly induced by lactic acid.

furthermore given that k00140a is identical to the only fit2 homolog annotated in z. bailii strain clib213t bn86019394g11 and it is not differentially regulated the z. parabailii-specific genes in this family may have func- tional relevance.discussionwe aim to engineer a yeast strain able to produce lactic acid which at high concentrations is toxic to the cells.

this mechanism was described in the bacterium pseudomonas fluorescens as an antioxidative defense mech- anism   and we speculate that the multiple fdh enzymes in z. parabailii might serve a similar role.there are significant differences between the response to lactic acid that we observed in z. parabailii and the responses previously reported in s. cerevisiae  .

together with the peculiar plasma membrane composition  these changes in the cell wall may contribute to thesuperior lactic acid tolerance of z. parabailii.the expression of haa1-regulated genes during stress in z. parabailii is rather different from that in s. cerevisiae.

