alternatively if expression differences are plastic responses to habitat transitions common garden experiments would reveal sim- ilar expression patterns for marine and freshwater species under the same conditions.we study odontesthes silversides that comprise 19 marine and freshwater species commonly known as pejerreyes dyer 2006 which have recently and frequently transitioned from marine to freshwater in southern south america bloom weir piller  lovejoy 2013 campanella et al.

bonariensis figure 4.4  discussion  divergence between marine and freshwater fishesthe genetic data mitochondrial dna and few nuclear gene se- quences available to compare o. argentinensis and o. bonariensis prior to our transcriptome analysis suggested very little genetic di- vergence within the typical boundaries of intraspecific variation diaz et al.

bonariensis.whether due to rapid speciation in freshwater habitats or ongo- ing gene flow among incipient freshwater species and marine fishes there is little genetic differentiation among species in the argentinen- sis-bonariensis species complex campanella et al.

2015. plastic responses to the environment observed in some estuarine atherinid species are hypothesized to be a pre-adaptation for successfully undertaking transitions to fresh water bamber  henderson 1988 and species or species complexes that inhabit different salinity gradients often show genetic structuring and evi- dence for incipient speciation beheregaray  sunnucks 2001 fluker pezold  minton 2011 kraitsek klossa-kilia papasotiropoulos alahiotis  kilias 2008. we focus on a pair of species one marine and one freshwater o. bonariensis native to lakes and rivers of the pampas region of argentina the rio de la plata and lower parana and uruguay basins up to the tramandai coastal lagoon system in brazil dyer 2006 liotta 2005 somoza et al.

molecular ecology resources 12 1058-1067.diaz a. o. castro m. g. garcia a. m. diaz de astarloa j. m.  figueroad.

heredity edinb 100 178-183.vasta g. r. nita-lazar m. giomarelli b. ahmed h. du s. cammarata m. ... amzel l. m. 2011. structural and functional diversity of the lectin repertoire in teleost fish relevance to innate and adaptive im- munity.

plos one 8 e61217.morris m. r. j. richard r. leder e. h. barrett r. d. h. aubin-horth n.  rogers s. m. 2014. gene expression plasticity evolves in response to colonization of freshwater lakes in threespine stickleback.

journal of applied ichthyology 16 126-130.tsuzuki m. y. ogawa k. strussmann c. a. maita m.  takashima f. 2001. physiological responses during stress and subsequent recov- ery at different salinities in adult pejerrey odontesthes bonariensis.

developmental  comparative immunology 35 1388-1399.vigliano f. a. aleman n. quiroga m. i.  nieto j. m. 2006. ultrastructural characterization of gills in juveniles of the argentinian silverside odontesthes bonariensis valenciennes 1835 teleostei atheriniformes.

2015 dyer 2006. up to eight sometimes sympat- ric freshwater odontesthes species have been described in this region associated with rapid divergence in freshwater habitats as a result of recent changes in sea level beheregaray sunnucks  briscoe 2002. all these freshwater species are closely related to o. argentinensis ando.

clinical orthopaedics and related research 76 244-280.somoza g. m. miranda l. a. berasain g. e. et al.

most fishes are stenohaline have narrow salinity tolerance and just 2 of all fishes are euryhaline occupying both marine and freshwater envi- ronments betancur-r et al.

other abiotic im- pacts include the relative lack of calcium available in fresh water critical because teleosts absorb calcium for bone formation directly from the surrounding waters bell orti walker  koenings 1993 simmons 1971. temperature fluctuations are greater in freshwater habitats presenting less opportunity to escape inhospitable tem- peratures lee  bell 1999. biotic factors also are likely to be im- portant given that microbial communities are strongly structured by salinity logares et al.

for example significant divergence of snps associated with freshwater adaptation has been detected in or near genes related to osmoregu- lation stress and immune function by comparing marine and fresh- water populations of sticklebacks and killifishes hohenlohe et al.

2013 whitehead galvez zhang williams  oleksiak 2011 whitehead roach zhang  galvez 2012 and transcriptional responses to temperature are more variable in freshwater than marine stickleback morris et al.

