furthermore we discuss future aspects of avm treatment such as the potential impact of estrogen and live biotherapeutic products to positively modulate the microbiota of the reproductive tract.keywords vaginal microbiota clindamycin frozen embryo transfer bacterial vaginosisintroductionduring the last two or three decades the diagnostic approach to bv has been either the clinical amsel criteria ph  4.5 fishy odor clue cells on wet smear vaginal discharge or different scoring methods of gram stained vaginal smears e.g.

to further investigate causation intervention based studies are urgently needed and in that regard an important question is how do we modulate the vaginal microbiota from unfavorable to favorablewhen considering the close similarity between bv and avm the standard treatment regimens for bv metronidazole and clindamycin seem to be the first line choice for avm treatment.

to our knowledge no data has been presented to document the longitudinal treatment response of oral clindamycin administered for molecularly diagnosed avm in an ivf setting.here we present a case-report documenting the longitudinal effect of oral clindamycin on avm and discuss our findings in the context of the available literature.cycle following two failed fresh ivf cycles see flowchart in figure 1. at entry to our clinic the patient was 39 years old and had one child with a previous partner following a natural conception and after an uncomplicated pregnancy.

the low ph may have influenced the activity of clindamycin in the vaginal compartment as reported for staphylococcus aureus the clindamycin mic increased 4-fold by a decrease in ph from 7.4 to5.5 lemaire et al.

2016 it could be speculated that oral clindamycin had sufficient activity in the uterine cavity to eradicate the g. vaginalis biofilm and apparently also vaginal g. vaginalis yet leaving the vaginal lactobacilli unaffected.

consequently the vaginal ph was measured and a vaginal swab was obtained for avm diagnosis using quantitative q threshold assessment of g. vaginalis and a. vaginae by qpcr datcu et al.

the patient reported no side- effects from clindamycin during the treatment period until the follow-up consultation 8-days later.as shown in figure 2 the short- and long-term treatment efficacy from oral clindamycin on avm was excellent resulting in rapid eradication of g. vaginalis.

this finding may have important implications for the selection of the optimal route of administration of clindamycin in treatment trials of avm in women preparing for ivf treatment as avm has been shown to be negatively associated with reproductive outcomes following ivf.author contributionsth jj ba and ph contributed to study design and manuscript drafting.

 1 helle o. elbaek 1  rita j. laursen 1  birgit alsbjerg 1  2 and 11 department of clinical medicine denmark and the fertility clinic skive skive regional hospital aarhus university skive denmark 2 microbiology and infection control statens serum institut copenhagen denmarkedited byrita verhelst independent researcher belgiumreviewed by sonal pendharkar kulkarni independent researcher switzerlandwerner mendling deutsches zentrum fur infektionen in gynakologie und geburtshilfegermany angela vinturacheoxford university hospitals nhs trustunited kingdomcorrespondencethor haahr specialty section this article was submitted to clinical and translational physiologya section of the journal frontiers in physiologyreceived 05 april 2017accepted 30 may 2017published 19 june 2017citation haahr t elbaek ho laursen rj alsbjerg b jensen js and humaidan p 2017 treatment of abnormal vaginal microbiota beforefrozen embryo transfer case-report and minireview to discuss the longitudinal treatment efficacy of oral clindamycin.

in the present case report we present the first longitudinal follow-up of the vaginal microbiota with molecular methods during and after oral clindamycin treatment.

the ph was 4.0 and in a vaginal smear which underwent nugent score assessment the patient was graded with normal vaginal flora.

however due to patient demand she was treated with oral clindamycin for 7 days 300 mg two times per day.the patient was instructed to take self-collected swabs copan eswab from the mid-vagina and a follow-up swab was collected at the day of embryo transfer to test the short-term treatment efficacy 8 days after last clindamycin dose.

furthermore the patient gave written consent to the clinical management and subsequent publication.discussion and review of the literatureto the best of our knowledge this case-report is the first to investigate the longitudinal effect of treatment with oral clindamycin on the vaginal microbiota by qpcr method throughout the treatment course and with a substantial follow- up.

one explanation could be that the particular l. crispatus strain colonizing this patient had a higher mic than usual but this is contradicted by the substantial growth in the last part of the treatment cycle of l. jensenii pointing more in the direction of a sub-inhibitory concentration of clindamycin in some parts of the vaginal compartment as it would be unlikely that two different species should have unusually high mics.

although we investigated selected common vaginal bacteria we did not report data using sequencing techniques that would have shown a more comprehensive overview of the vaginal microbiome.

