we then discuss the implications for fmt treatment and con- tinued research.table 1. clinical characteristics of fmt recipients with underlying ibd.all patients n56age mean sd38.216.9female n 24 42.9methodsduration of cdi prior to fmtmonths mean ss sd13.6 ss 11.0inclusion and exclusion criteria for fmt in our clinical program were described previously.patients from our entire fmt cohort who had a diagnosis of ibd eitherimmunosuppression  n 29 51.8crohn's disease n 28 50.0ileal n8 8 mildileocolonic n12 1 inactive 4 mild 6 moderate 1 severepreceding fmt or diagnosed de novo at the time ofcolonic only n8 1 inactive 1 mild 6 moderatefmt were included in this analysis.

recently we reported the experience of fmt in our clinical pro- gram which compared outcomes in ibd and non- ibd rcdi recipients.we found that the success rate in preventing cdi recurrence with fmt was some- what lower in ibd patients and there was also greater than 25 chance of triggering a flare of ibd activity with fmt despite conversion to a c. difficile negative status.

one patient underwent a diverting colostomy.discussionour results with the expanded cohort of ibd patients from our clinical fmt program support our previous conclusions that fmt is generally effective in achiev- ing resolution of cdi in ibd patients.however there are important caveats that need to be considered by clinicians offering fmt to ibd patients and dis- cussed during the consent process.

althoughendoscopic assessment at the time of fmt was avail- able in all patients there were also no structured fol- low-up evaluations with standardized clinical activity scores and endoscopic examinations.in conclusion there is an emerging consensus that fmt is an effective and safe approach in ibd patients in breaking the cycle of rcdi even though the success rate of the initial fmt is somewhat lower and there is a non-trivial chance of a late relapse.

all subjects had a post fmt clinical visit at 2 months to document response and need for escalation of underlying ibd therapy.resultsthe overall demographics of the ibd patients who received fmt for rcdi is presented in .

as we reported previouslyin some instances 7 patients a de novo diagnosis of pre- viously unsuspected ibd was made at the time of colo- noscopic fmt.outcomes of fmt in rcdi patients with underlying ibda single fmt was successful defined as conversion to a c. difficile negative status within 2 months of the procedure in 4856 85.7 of cases .

three patientstable 2. outcomes of fmt in patients with different ibd subtypes.spontaneous relapsesurgery foractivity despite fmt andnote.

notably failure to observe any improvement of diarrheal symptoms with antibiotics before fmt which would suggest that there was no causal relationship between cdi and ibd was only 50 predictive of ultimate failure to demonstrate clin- ical improvement following fmt.we tried to estimate the overall clinical benefit that may be attributable to fmt in our cohort by synthe- sising outcomes at the 2-month time point and long- term follow-up although clearly such analysis is diffi- cult without a placebo control.

our results are in agreement with a recent multi-center retrospective analysis of a similar cohort of 54 ibd patients treated with fmt for rcdi by fischer and colleagues.these investigators found that the initial fmt was successful against rcdi in 81 of patients and this rate increased further with multiple fmts.

we anticipate thatcarriers would not experience any symptomatic bene- fit from bezlotoxumab treatment whereas patients with c. difficile toxin-driven symptoms would experi- ence symptomatic improvement.mechanistic understanding of fmt in rcdi is essential in teasing out which elements are compro- mised in presence of ibd and consequently allow for design of more effective fmt protocols.

fecal microbiota transplantation fmt a treatment that restores normal fecal micro- bial community composition and functionality has emerged as a highly effective treatment of rcdi.

however outcomes of fmt performed for treatment of rcdi in the ibd population are more varied com- pared with the non-ibd population.

the subtype of ibd ulcerative colitis uc or crohn's disease was assigned based on patient history previous endoscopic findings and colonoscopic findings at the time of fmt.

patients with a past diagnosis of ibd but lacking any evidence for the diagnosis during the fmt colo- noscopy were not included in this case series.

colono- scopic findings at the time of fmt were used to type uc as either left-sided or pancolitis and crohn's dis- ease as ileal ileocolonic or colonic only.

