the second class refers to the triangle motif that is connected with an external mao and is further distinguished as three categories single-link mao handle double-link mao handle and tri- ple-link mao handle with one two and three links to the node of mao handle respectively.at the tertiary level classification each of the five secondary level categories trios without mao handle trios with mao handle single-link mao handle double-link mao handle and triple-link mao handle is further clas- sified based on the signs  or - of the interactions correlations within the trio or between the trio and handle.

in consideration of the existence or absence of mao handle connected with trios the 19 triangle motifs are classified into two classes explained in table 1 trios without mao handle upper section in table 1 and discussed in this sub-section further and trios with mao handle bottom section in table 1 and discussed in the next sub-section.as displayed in table  the class of trios without mao handle is further distinguished as two categories trios with mao and trios without mao.

the category of trios without mao including four types that differ from eachtable 4. the number of various trios in the class of trios with mao handle in the sin.other by the signs of trio links - - -  - -   -    although listed for comparative purpose may be less important than the category of trios with mao for the following reason because mao is not involved apparently the number of trios in this category may be too many to focus on for further etiological studies in practice.given the particular significance of the category of trios with mao we further distinguish four types type 1-4 at the tertiary level classification depending on the signs  or - of the trio links.

rdht for trios with mao trios without mao single-link with mao slm double-link with mao dlm and triple-link with mao tlm respectively.

with a three-level classification scheme of node role interaction type and their combinations specifically the existenceabsence of mao handle or mao the positive vs. negative interaction as well as their permutations a total of 19 trios including 10 without mao handle and 9 with mao handle.

uc in ibd case ad in skin case were sampled to deal with the issue of unbalanced treatments.table 3. the number of various trios in the class of trios without mao handle in the sin.motifs or trio types defined in previous table 1. the results from tfp computing are listed in the following table for the class of trios without mao handle and table for the class of trios with mao handle respectively.the class of trios without mao handle.

due to the special role of mao we further distinguish two sub-types for type-1 type-1a  type-1b and type-2 type-2a  type 2b respectively at the tertiary level by noting the 'position' of mao in the trio see table 1. this classification results in the six types in the category of trios with mao i.e.

trios with mao but no mao handle in the human microbiome computed from table the class of trios with mao handle.

the former class was further classified into 10 types based on the existence of mao in the trio as well as permutation of positive and negative links and the latter class was further classified into 9 types based on the number of links to mao 1 2 or 3 as well as the permutation of positive and negative links.

formally with the three-level classification scheme we distinguish two classes five cat- egories and 19 types of trios at the first secondary and tertiary level respectively table 1. at the primary level of the classification we distinguish two classes the trios without mao handle and trios with mao handle.

at the secondary level the first class refers to the triangle motif that is not connected with an external mao 'handle' and is further distinguished as two categories trios with mao i.e.

obviously regardless whether or not mao is involved the arguments regarding   - and - - - hold hence in both trios with and without mao these two patterns may not be sustainable.we name type-1  - - triangle motif as dominantly inhibitive trio given that negative interactions form majority in the system.

in the class of trios with mao handle mao is connected with the trio as a 'handle' rather than as a constituent node of the trio.

in contrast with the previously discussed class of trios without mao handle there is no 'prohibited' trio in the trios with mao handle.

note that the trios in this class actually do not contain mao because usually mao is unique in microbiome network.the results in tables and suggest that the range of rdht spans from zero to infinity.

