This was not explained by different attack rates on plants differing in infection status suggesting that infected plants reduced aphid defenses against the parasitoids 82.Natural enemies of herbivores can cue on the health of plants possibly as an indicator of herbivore presence 53.

Similarly the ectoparasitoid wasp Tamarixia radiata which parasitizes the Asian citrus psyllid Diaphorina citri was more attracted to citrus plants infected by the D. citri-transmitted Candidatus Liberibacter bacteria than to uninfected plants and parasitization was enhanced on the infected plants 78.

oryzae whereas its predator Cyrtorhinus lividipennis preferred healthy plants in the absence of planthoppers and infected plants when the plants had been fed on by the planthoppers 131.

This was explained by significantly higher levels of planthopper-induced volatile organic compounds VOCs emitted from infected plants compared to healthy plants 131.Interactions Among Phytopathogens and Consequences for HerbivoresInfection of the same plant by multiple pathogens can produce complex interactive effects on plants that consequently influence insect performance and behavior.

The inoculated plants have lower terpene synthase gene TPS03 and TPS04 expression than the control plants but in contrast to the aphid study inoculated plants were more attractive to the caterpillar parasitoid Microplitismediator 97.

Feeding by the groundnut leafminer Aproaerema modicella induced higher levels of numerous defensive enzymes in groundnut Arachis hypogaea plants when the plants had been pretreated with foliar and soil applications of two strains of B. bassiana compared to untreated control plants 119.

In this review we focus on how microbes may mediate the interactions of insect herbivores with their host plants Figure 1.INSECT-ASSOCIATED MICROBESInsect-Associated Microbes Influence Plant Hormones and Antiherbivore DefensesRecent studies are suggesting that the perception of herbivores and their HAMPs by plants may be manipulated by higher trophic levels.

It is well established that plant viruses often cause yellow symptoms in infected plants and that yellow plants can be preferred landing sites for vectors including aphids whiteflies and leafhoppers 47 65 136.

This preference of aphids to land on yellow plants that are not necessarily their hosts coupled with their propensity to disperse seems to favor the spread of nonpersistent viruses to plants that are nonhosts for the aphids.

For instance the green peach aphid Myzus persicae reared on Cucurbita pepo plants infected by Cucumber mosaic virus suffered higher rates of parasiti- zation by Aphidius colemani than aphids reared on uninfected plants 82.

