bilophila wadsworthia and colitis in il10 mice10 the study from lamas et al2 is a good example of the positive interplay between diet and the intestinal microbiota leading to the generation of microbial metabolites that play a central role in the protection against intestinal inflammation.finally in their study lamas et al2 further corroborated the results obtained in mice with the analysis of samples from ibd patients and demonstrated that such patients have a reduced fecal ahr activity and fecal levels of tryptophan.

this study highlights the role of tryptophan in dampening intestinal inflammation in susceptible hosts.key words intestinal inflammation tryptophan micro biotac the authors 2017. published by baishideng publishinggroup inc. all rights reserved.etienne-mesmin l chassaing b gewirtz at.

indoles derivatives are ligands for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor ahr that can drivescommentary on hot topicsthe human intestinal tract harbors a complex com munity including 100 trillion of microbes referred as intestinal microbiota.

those data strengthen the essential role played by the intestinal microbiota bacteria but also fungi in triggering intestinal inflammation following card9 impairment2.local production of il22 by innate lymphoid cells and tcells6.

previous studies focusing on the amino acid trypto phan demonstrated that mice fed with a lowtrypto phan diet became susceptible to chemically induced inflammation7 and conversely mice or piglets fed with a tryptophan supplemented diet have a reduced inflammation and a decreased severity of dss-induced colitis89.as a therapeutic strategy the authors next postulated that altering the intestinal microbiota in genetically susceptible host so as to increase its ability to generate ahr ligands could protect from intestinal inflammation.

telephone 1-404-4133589fax 1-404-4133580received august 12 2016peerreview started august 12 2016first decision september 16 2016revised september 22 2016accepted october 22 2016article in press october 24 2016published online february 6 2017abstractinflammatory bowel diseases ibd which comprisecrohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are chronic intestinal disorders with an increased prevalence and incidence over the last decade in many different regions over the world.

the etiology of ibd is still not well defined but evidence suggest that it results from per turbation of the homeostasis between the intestinal microbiota and the mucosal immune system with the involvement of both genetic and environmental factors.

ibd arise as a complex interaction between host genetic factors mucosal immune system intestinal dysbiosis and environmental factors among which dietary compounds being increa singly appreciated in the onset of inflammatory related disorders.

in light of the close relationship occurring between the intestinal microbiota and dietary intake such data further highlight the need of controlling both macro and micronutrients consumption in ibd patients with genetic predisposition.in the same issue of nature medicine an additional study by rothhammer et al12 also expand the sub stantial effect of tryptophan in regulating inflammation by focusing their study on the central nervous systemetiennemesmin l et al .

thus the authors demonstrated that supplementation with three commensal lactobacilllus strains with high tryptophan-metabolic activities was sufficient to restore intestinal il22 production and to reverse the colitis susceptibility observed in susceptible card9 mice.

card9 mediates intestinal epithelial cell restitution t-helper 17 responses and control of bacterial infection in mice.

genome wide association studies which involve large scale genomewide screening of potential polymorphism have identified several mutations associated with ibd.

among them card9  a gene encoding an adapter molecule involved in innate immune response to fungi via type clectin sensing through the activation of il22 signaling pathway has been identified as one ibd susceptible genes.

dietary compounds which represent a source of energy and metabolites for gut bacteria are also appreciated to be important actors in the etiology of ibd for example by altering gut microbiota composition and by regulating the generation of short chain fatty acids.

however perturbations of gut microbiota termed dysbiosis is associated with several disorders including inflam matory bowel disease ibd and metabolic syndrome obesityassociated diseases1.

