having evolved as a naturalcfigure 6. colonization by bt prevents crypt localization of an isogenic strainfecal densities of sequentially introduced isogenic bt strains with differing antibiotic resistance in conventional mice by selective plating erm red tet green.schematic for experiment in c-f in which germ-free mice are colonized with gfp- and rfp-expressing bt strains either one week apart bottom or simultaneously top.the relative abundance of gfp-expressing bt relative to the total gfp plus rfp bt is quantified for lumen gray bars and crypt black bars for the co- colonized and sequentially colonized mice.

we assessed the ability of two sequentially introduced isogenic bt strains to colonize a conventional mouse gut and consistent with the previous report we found that priority of arrival determines persistent colonization a.to investigate the role of crypt association in the exclusion phenomenon we applied the genetic tools developed here to directly image the localization of a gfp-expressing incoming bt strain relative to an established rfp-expressing bt strain in gnotobiotic mice b. as a control both bt strains were introduced coincidently.

no significant difference in abundance between the strains was observed over the course of 14 days tested by assessing single-colony fluorescence from plated fecal samples with a small reduction from 50-35 of the gfp-expressing strain during the next 8 weeks a. im- aging of the distal colon at day 71 post-colonization revealed a strong endogenous gfp fluorescence signal in 37 of the bt b and s3c-s3g consistent with data from plating a.considering the possibility that the fitness burden of high protein expression would be greater in a complex community than in culture or gnotobiotic mice we inoculated bt with either pbfp1e6-driven gfp expression or without gfp expression intoabcfigure 2. identification of a phage promoter capable of high protein expression.three rbs library distributions are displayed as boxplots for p bt1763-driven gfp fluorescence in bt using three different degenerate rbs library sequences.

when simultaneously colonized imag- ing of the lumen and crypts of the proximal colon revealed approximately equal abundance of the two strains in both loca- tions c-6e table s6 and movie s1 however when the gfp-expressing bt was introduced seven days after the rfp- expressing bt a dramatically lower level of gfp-expressing bt was observed in the lumen after only 24 hr 0.73 - 0.15 sequentially colonized compared to 52 - 6 co-colonized p  0.002 using a paired two-tailed student's t test.

this phage promoter here termed pbfp1e6 was compared to prrna the two strongest native bt promoters pbt1830 and pbt4615 we identified from available transcriptional profiling data  and the strongest pro- moter from a recent publication on synthetic biology tools for bt pbt1311 .

in culture a 5050 mix of the high-gfp-expres- sion pbfp1e6 bt strain and a non-expressing control bt strain maintained at 50 relative abundance of each strain after 100 generations of growth figures s3a and s3b.

error bars represent the 95 confidence interval for replicates of at least three independent experiments.a cell pellet from non-expressing bt left is compared to a pellet with bt harboring a pbfp1e6-driven gfp expression construct right suspended over a uv box producing fluorescence that is clearly visible by eye.conventional mice harboring a complex microbiota and moni- tored abundance by selective plating over 30 days.

high gfp expression does not reduce the ability of bt to colonize a complex community with bt comprising 4 of the culturable anaerobes dashed lines over 30 days with no significant difference between gfp-expressing and control strains.

we found high correlation between expected and measured expression over a 1000000-fold range in all four species with r2 ranging fromin bt to 0.89 in bv d. additionally the promoters produce the expected relative levels of gfp in bt bv bo bf and bacteroides eggerthii be figure s5a.

each biological replicate of gfp-expressing bt was mixed with one repli- cate of non-expressing bt subcultured at 11000 and grown for 24 hr.

gfp-expressing bt in vitro fitness and in vivo expression related to to allow monitoring the proportion of a population expressing gfp for an in vitro fitness experiment by measurement of bulk fluorescence a standard curve was generated comparing bulk fluorescence to gfp positive cfus for cultures with different proportions of gfp expressing cells.bt with pbfp1e6-driven gfp expression was mixed 11 with a non-expressing bt strain and passaged 11000 dilutions and assayed daily for bulk fluorescence black over 11 days.

conservation of the upstream region important for phage promoter function in native bt promoters and quantification of absolute protein expression related to for each gene in the bt genome a candidate promoter sequence was identified by the presence of the -7 conserved sequence tanntttgnnn ending within 10 to 60 nucleotides of the start codon of the first gene in the operon operons predicted by .

gfp expression relative to pbfp1e6 in bt is plotted for each promoter against luciferase expression in bt b. background autofluorescence from a strain lacking gfp 0.8 is subtracted from gfp fluorescence values.

thresholds used to determine species identity are used to quantify the number of cells that would be miscategorized area in red as the absent species bt bu and be giving a 5.9 error rate.legend continued on next pageto assess false positive rates in gut sections between high gfp bt and rfp bf labeled cells mice were colonized with a mix of the two cell types and fluorescent values were quantified.inspection revealed the false positives in h were due primarily to errors in mask generation that resulted in two cells i.e.

thetaiotaomicron bt b. vulgatus bv b. ovatus bo andb.

