other fruit substrates that provide better nutrition for b. tryoni or whole fruits instead of artificial media may yield greater total survival in the presence or absence of yeasts.that a beneficial yeast species living in the gut of b. tryoni larvae should deter female adults flies when present in fruits might appear somewhat counterintuitive in terms of an evolu- tionary or ecological explanation--particularly in light of the work on drosophila where both yeast species and h. uvarum in particular are highly attractive to adult flies scheidler et al.

significantly fewer mated female flies were caughtin the h. uvarum traps compared to the orange-agar sterile control and significantly more flies were caught in p. kluyveri traps compared to the control thus h. uvarum emitted a deter- rent odour whilst p. kluyveri emitted an attractant odour.

given that h. uvarum is frequently associated with b. tryoni larvae and emits a distinct odour the olfactory system of female flies may have evolved to recognize specific h. uvarum volatiles as a predictable cue for decreased fruit quality.

doi 10.1007s10886-017-0877-1two gut-associated yeasts in a tephritid fruit fly have contrasting effects on adult attractionand larval survivalalexander m. piper1  kevin farnier1  tomas linder2  robert speight3 john paul cunningham1received 21 june 2017  revised 4 august 2017  accepted 9 august 2017  published online 23 august 2017 springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstract yeast-insect interactions have been well character- ized in drosophilid flies but not in tephritid fruit flies which include many highly polyphagous pest species that attack rip- ening fruits.

work is currently ongoing to develop new molecular markers in tephritid- associated yeasts with higher phylogenetic resolution to enable more precise species assignment.whilst the presence of the same gut-associated yeast species in b. tryoni as in drosophilid fruit flies might suggest a similar mutualistic relationship between insect and yeast our bioassays revealed striking differences in the olfactory behavior of adult flies and also in larval survival.

oviposition choice tests exposing the same three substrates directly to the flies demonstrated that both yeasts had a strong deterrent effect receiving significantly fewer eggs compared to the orange-agar control.our study on queensland fruit fly larvae suggests that the presence of h. uvarum is highly beneficial to larval fitness.

there were similarities in the array ofthe cohort of yeasts we isolated from the gut of queensland fruit fly b. tryoni larvae represent a similar diversity to those isolated from larvae of frugivorous drosophila species lachance et al.

in behavioural trials using adult female b. tryoni a fruit-agar substrate inoculated with pichia kluyveri resulted in odour emissions that increased the attraction of flies where- as inoculation with hanseniaspora uvarum produced odours that strongly deterred flies and both yeasts led to decreased oviposition.

an important requirement for the mass-rearing of flies in sit is a high-quality diet parker  and the selection of suitable species of live yeasts associated with the target fruit fly species in nature could improve the quality of artificial diets.

we began with the molecular identifica- tion of yeasts found in the gut of wild b. tryoni larvae collect- ed from three host fruits peaches prunus persica cherry plums prunus cerasifera and strawberry guavas psidium cattleyanum identifying two predominant species hanseniaspora uvarum and pichia kluyveri.

which when inoculated into the fruit can provide the developing fruit fly larvae with nutritional benefits hamby and becher .

doi cunningham jp carlsson ma villa tf dekker t clarke ar 2016 do fruit ripening volatiles enable resource specialism in polyphagous fruit flies j chem ecol 42931-940davis ts crippen tl hofstetter rw tomberlin jk 2013 microbial volatile emissions as insect semiochemicals.

in the wake of the rapid spread of the spotted wing drosophila d. suzukii an under- standing of the role yeasts play in attracting these flies has formed the basis of current and emerging battract and kill pest management strategies which use odour attractants to monitor and mass trap this highly destructive pest of ripening fruits hamby and becher .far less is known about the role of yeasts in the ecology of tephritid fruit flies.

using the queensland fruit fly bactrocera tryoni as our model tephritid species we identified yeast spe- cies present in the gut of wild-collected larvae and found two genera hanseniaspora and pichia were the dominant iso- lates.

survival of larvae to adulthood on h. uvarum was comparable to that found when b. tryoni larvae develop on ripe nectarines masry et al.

