species that predominantly initiate colo- nization of the supra-gingival dental surfaces under healthy-associated conditions include the mitis streptococcus mitis and streptococcus oralis and the sanguinus groups streptococcus sanguinis and streptococcus gordonii .

the con- served domain architecture of rr includes the n-terminal receiver domain rec containing a con- served d residue that receives the phosphoryl group required for activation of the regulatory domain output domain.

37e2683.jensen a scholz cf kilian m. re-evaluation of the taxonomy of the mitis group of the genus streptococcus based on whole genome phylogenetic analyses and proposed reclassification of streptococcus dentisani as streptococcus oralis subsp.

streptococcal antag- onism in oral biofilms streptococcus sanguinis and streptococcus gordonii interference with streptococcus mutans.

some of the common accessory domains are pas a domain common in per-arnt- sim proteins gaf a domain common in cgmp- specific phosphodiesterases adenyl cyclases and the bacterial transcriptional regulator fhla and hamp a domain common in hks adenyl cyclases methyl- accepting proteins and phosphatases .

nov. streptococcus tigurinus as streptococcus oralis subsp.

nov. and streptococcus oligofermentans as a later synonym of streptococcus cristatus.

characterization of hydrogenperoxide-induceddnareleaseby streptococcus sanguinis and streptococcus gordonii.

188 41628-1632.zhu l kreth j. role of streptococcus mutans eukar- yotic-type serinethreonine protein kinase in inter- species interactions with streptococcus sanguinis.

polymorphism and regulation of the spxb pyruvate oxidase virulence factor gene by a cbs-hotdog domain protein spxr in serotype 2 streptococcus pneumoniae.

kinetic charac- terization of the walrkspn vicrk two-component system of streptococcus pneumoniae dependence of walkspn vick phosphatase activity on its pas domain.

the n-terminal sensor domain input domain is the most variable since it defines the specificity for the environ- mental ligand and includes one to several transmem- brane domains tms.

the highly conserved dimerization and histidine phosphotransferase domain dhp also known as hiska is contained in the intra- cellular compartment and is responsible for autopho- sphorylation at the conserved his residue and for the phosphotransfer reactions the transmitter domain.

upon recognition of a specific environmental signal by the sensory domain the hk undergoes autophosphorylation through hatpasec-mediated transference of a phosphate group from atp to the conserved histidine h in the dhp domain.

in the schematic diagram the hk contains a c-terminal receiver domain that receives the phosphate group and is involved in a phosphotransfer to the rr via a histidine phosphotransferase hpt intermediate.kinase-like atpase c-terminal domain typical of sev- eral atp-binding proteins.

