curr diab rep 2017 17 20 doi 10.1007s11892-017-0851-xtype 2 diabetes and hepatocellular carcinoma risk factors and pathogenesiswainwright12  e. scorletti34  c. d. byrne 34published online 13 march 2017 springer sciencebusiness media new york 2017abstractpurpose of review this review aims to assess the epidemio- logical evidence for a link between type 2 diabetes and hepa- tocellular carcinoma and to investigate possible pathophysio- logical mechanisms.recent findings the presence of type 2 diabetes significantly increases the risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma and treatment with metformin may be associated with a lower risk.

there is also now a significant body of evidence to suggest that the presence of type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance is associated with significantly poorer outcomes in individuals with hepa- titis c infection increasing the risk of liver fibrosis and cir- rhosis worsening the response to antiviral therapy increasing the risk of hcc increasing the chance of death due to liver- related causes and shortening the time from diagnosis to liver transplantation .

this review will exam- ine the evidence for a link between diabetes nafld obesity and hcc from an epidemiological and a patho- physiological perspective.type 2 diabetes and obesity as risk factors for hepatocellular carcinomaa recent systematic review and meta-analysis from 2012 looked specifically at diabetes as a risk factor for hcc .

these data would sug- gest a synergistic additive interaction between diabetes and the other major risk factor for hcc and indeed there are similar data to suggest this synergism also exists with alcohol- ic liver disease .there is also evidence to suggest that certain anti-diabetic medications may have a modifying effect on the risk of devel- oping hcc.

non-alcoholic fatty liver diseaseintroductiontype 2 diabetes and hepatocellular carcinoma hcc are closely linked due to their association with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld and obesity.

2013108 881-91. this is a comprehensive review of the effect of various anti-diabetic medications on hcc risk and provides much use- ful commentary.larsson sc wolk a. overweight obesity and risk of liver cancer a meta-analysis of cohort studies.

a further meta-analysis published 5 years later assessed 26 prospective studies includ- ing over 25000 cases of primary liver cancer and showed that those with excess body weight as defined by a body mass index greater than 25 kgm2 had a summary relative risk of hcc of 1.48 while those with obesity had a summary relative risk of hcc of 1.83 .

it has recently been shown that up to 20 of individuals with both nafld and type 2 diabetes will have clinically significant hepatic fibrosis   conferring increased risk of progression to more severe forms of liver disease.

as such it is clear that there is a bidirec- tional relationship between type 2 diabetes and hepatitis c infection and both of these conditions act synergistically to increase the risk of developing hcc.treatmentthere are three principle treatment options for hcc and these are generally the same regardless of aetiology orthotopic liver transplantation resection and radiofrequency ablation.

the risk of then developing hcc from cirrhosis secondary to nafld has been reported as being between 2.4 and 12.8 -.table 1characteristics of studies linking type 2 diabetes with incident hepatocellular carcinomaand t2dm only considered dm at baselinemiele 2015case control study613224rome italy2.25 1.42-3.56 small sample size did not adjustfor overweightobesitythe risk of developing hcc would appear to be related to the severity of hepatic fibrosis which itself is related to adverse features of the metabolic syndrome.

it has subsequently been shown that carriers of the genetic polymorphism that encodes for the i148m variant allele are at greatly increased risk of developing hcc and it has been suggested that testing for genotype status could contribute to risk stratification in certain populations .type 2 diabetes obesity and nafld are all strongly asso- ciated with insulin resistance  and also with a chronic low- grade inflammatory state .

the results of this study showed that people with diabetes had a 2.31-fold increased risk of developing hcc compared to those subjects without diabetes.

the authors observed a twofold higher incidence of hcc in the group with diabetes and this was associated with an ad- justed odds ratio of 1.73. data from these studies are summarised in table .a further systematic review was published in 2016 inves- tigating risk of hcc amongst those subjects with a pre- existing diagnosis of chronic hepatitis c infection and the effect of diabetes .

of the seven studies included five demonstrated significantly increased risk of hcc in patients with chronic hepatitis c infection who also had diabetes as compared with those without diabetes.

association between diabetes family history of diabetes and risk of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and fibrosis.

