rarefaction curves based on normalization by subsampling at 15000 sequences per sample showed that all samples except n. lujae r1 were close to saturation figure s1 supplementary data indicating that all communities were sufficiently sampled to estimate bacterial diversity and richness.termite gut microbiome compositionthe average number of otus observed was 150 181 192 and 292 for the gut microbiomes of t. hospes n. ephratae n. lujaetable 1  microbial biomass concentration estimated as 16s rrna gene copies measured at the beginning and at the end of the incubation.16s rrna gene copiesulvalues are detailed for each inoculum and biological replicates.and m. parvus respectively table 2. considering shannon's and simpson's reciprocal index t. hospes displayed the highest diversity while the other termite gut microbiomes displayed similar levels of diversity.abundant otus were defined herein as those displaying a minimum 2 abundance min.

the phylogenetic profiles of the bacterial communities present in the bioreactor at the end of the incubation were dominated by firmicutes particularly of the clostridia class and contained lower levels of proteobacteria- and bacteroidetes-related otus figure 3. moreover unlike the original gut microbiome the abundant otus present at the end of the experiment were the same for all samples irrespective of the profile of the original inoculum table 3. pcoa analysis based on weighted-unifrac distances confirmed that the final communities were significantly different compared to the initialthe bioreactors represented 5 in the initial gut community and in some cases they represented 0.01 table 3.gut microbiome figure 5. it is noteworthy that replicates of the gut microbiome of a given termite species clustered together whereas replicates of the bioreactor communities were more distant with the exception of those derived fromt.

gut microbiomes from four termite species were evaluated for their ability to produce carboxylates from wheat straw in controlled bioreactorsmonitoring substrate composition products enzymatic activities and microbial community dynamics using 16s rrna gene sequencing.materials and methodslignocellulose substrate and termite gut inoculawheat straw from the winter wheat variety koreli was collected at an experimental farm inra boissy-le-repos france in august 2011. after harvesting the straw was milled to 2 mm and storedat room temperature 20-25c.four different species of higher termites termitidae family microcerotermes parvus termes hospes nasutitermes ephratae and one undescribed species closely related to n. lujae herein after n. lujae were selected as inocula for this study.

finally it was noted that for all termite gut inocula more than 60 of the xylanase and cellulose activities were cell-bound.diversity analysis of the termite-gut inocula and lignocellulose degradation bioreactorsthe microbial diversity of the original termite gut microbiome and that of the communities developed in the bioreactors was assessed by sequencing the v3-v4 16s rrna gene region of genomic dna samples.

indeed only 8 minor otus were common to the four termite species.regarding the relative abundances of species the gut microbiome from m. parvus and the two species of nasutitermes were dominated by spirochaetes 55 followed by fibrobacteres except for n. lujae and the candidate phylum termite group 3 tg3 figure 3. a completely different profiletable 2  alpha-diversity indexes of gut inocula and final reactor communities.speciesm.

2017. weighted unifrac distances of otus figure 4 showed that the two nasutitermes gut microbiomes were closely related while the m. parvus gut microbiome was closer to those of nasutitermes than the gut microbial community of t. hospes.

vfa accumulationvaried from 2.2 to 5.8 g.l-1 for the different termite gut inoculawith the n. ephratae gut microbiome yielding the highest concentration figure 1b.

nevertheless the termes gut microbiome was clearly different to that of nasutitermes gut being the only termite species displaying abundant otus belonging to firmicutes and proteobacteria.diversity changes after incubation in lignocellulose bioreactorsdetermination of observed richness table 2 using a 97 similarity threshold revealed that this was decreased by a factorof 2 147-304 otus being reduced to 67 otus over the 20- day incubation period.

indeed the weighted-unifrac distance observed between n. ephratae and n. lujae gut communities results from differences in abundance of fibrobacteres compared to the two other termite gut communities.

accordingly further identification and characterization of the enzymes present in the different reactors should provide insight into the relationship between the composition of the enzyme arsenals produced by the different termite gut-derived inocula and their wheat straw-degrading capabilities.a second aim of this study was to characterize the different components of the termite gut microbial communities and identify those that are involved in wheat straw degradation in the bioreactor experiments.

the presence of tg3-related otus in all termite guts confirmed that this hypothetically new phylum is widespread and dominant in termite gut communities.

2009.the final composition of the bacterial communities growing on wheat straw in the bioreactors was clearly distinct when compared to the parental termite gut communities figure 5. diversity analysis showed that otus present in termite guts were mainly host-specific.

11 85-98. doi eutick m. l. veivers p. o'brien r. w. and slaytor m. 1978. dependence of the higher termite nasutitermes exitiosus and the lower termite coptotermes lacteus on their gut flora.

therefore it appears that other factors such as the specific physiological state of the gut microbiome at the time of the gut's withdrawal could be responsible for experimental variability.in an attempt to relate wheat straw degradation to enzyme activity cellulose and xylanase activities were monitored.

2012. high-resolution analysis of gut environment and bacterial microbiota reveals functional compartmentation of the gut in wood-feeding higher termites nasutitermes spp.. appl.

