this can yield unintuitive properties sample 10 could be less dissimilar to sample 1 than sample 20. for instance sample 10 could represent a medium-ph environment sample 1 could represent a low-ph environment and sample 20 could represent a high-ph environment.

but as far as euclidean distance is concerned sample 10 is just as dissimilar to sample 1 as sample 20 just because there are no common bacteria shared between these samples.

sample 20 is expected to be more different from sample 1 than sample 10 since it contains very different microbes that thrive in high-ph environments.

all analyses can be found under .the mean gradient used for the 2 case studies was calculated as followsgn g xi 1x  l i ld xi1j1 jwhere xi is the proportion of otu x in sample i g x is the mean gradient of otu x and gi is the sample gradient at sample i. this calculation can be found in the gneiss package under the function meannicheestimator.

the overlap of the first sample in the band table and sample 10 and beyond disappears and the distance between these samples is maximized.

to calculate the distance between sample 1 and sample 2 the probability mass of species 1 and species 2 needs to be shuffled over to species 3 and species 4. this concept is analogous to computing maximum flow along a pipe and can be calculated using earth mover's distance metric .for the 88 soil samples fig.

therefore even if two samples are not overlapping samples closer together have a smaller distance value than samples further apart in the gradient.

s1a sample 1 and sample 2 have 4 species proportions each.

b distance saturation of chi-squared metric plotting the chi-squared distance of the first sample versus all of the other samples.

e unifrac distance of a given sample from the last time point versus all of the samples.

in the 88-soil-sample study the table was sorted by sample ph and mean ph of the samples in which the organisms were observed.

here we propose a rationale for the observed horseshoe effect from multiple dimensionality reduction techniques applied to simulations soil samples and samples from post- mortem mice.

c heat map of log transformed otu counts from the 88 soil samples with the samples sorted by ph and the otus sorted by mean ph.

this provides further evidence that this saturation property could explain the horseshoe phenomenon.for the 88-soil-sample study a permutational multivariate analysis of variance permanova was used to investigate the difference between soil samples with a ph less than 3 and soil samples with a ph greater than 8. with the embad metric the permanova gave a pseudo-f-statistic value of 650.5 and a p value of 0.0003 thus representing a much larger effect size than the original chi-squared distance metric with a pseudo-f-statistic value of 3.8 and a p value of 0.0004 with 9999 permutations.

here we provide some insight into the mathematical struc- ture of horseshoes.in  we show a simulated band table where each vertical band is represented by a sample and contains 10 nonzero values.

