the genomes of strains sugar 2 and sugar 4 were identical to each other and differed from that of strain sugar 3 by a single nucleotide polymorphism snp at position 883096 c  t. in a direct alignment of the three sugar draft genomes with that of the ames ancestormarchapril 2017 volume 8 issue 2 e00440-17r 1there were 5474730 high-quality nucleotide positions available for genotypic compar- ison.the initial molecular subtyping by canonical snp typing   assigned the strains to the a.br.ames clade.

all strains sugar 2 sugar 3 and sugar 4 were successfully grown on sheep blood agar out of deep-frozen cryobank stocks in a biosafety level 3 bsl3 area.

sugar 2 sugar 3 and sugar 4.supplemental materialsupplemental material for this article may be found at .table s1 xlsx file 0.1 mb.acknowledgmentthis work was supported by a grant from the u.s. department of homeland security science and technology directorate.referencesarias a watson sj asogun d tobin ea lu j phan mvt jah u wadoum reg meredith l thorne l caddy s tarawalie a langat p dudas g faria nr dellicour s kamara a kargbo b kamara bo gevao s cooper d newport m horby p dunning j sahr f brooks t simpson ajh grop- pelli e liu g mulakken n rhodes k akpablie j yoti z lamunu m vitto e otim p owilli c boateng i okoror l omomoh e oyakhilome j omiunu r yemisis i adomeh d ehikhiametalor s akhilomen p aire c kurth a cook n baumann j et al.

redmondc h. meyera bbundeswehr institute of microbiology munich germanya the pathogen and microbiome institute northern arizona university flagstaff arizona usab defence science and technology laboratory porton down united kingdomcabstract in 1998 it was claimed that an 80-year-old glass tube intentionally filled with bacillus anthracis and embedded in a sugar lump as a wwi biological weapon still contained viable spores.

the german spy baron otto von rosen was imprisoned in 1917 in karasjok norway near the current finnish border and accused of smuggling a biological weapon consisting of anthrax-filled glass capillaries hidden in sugar lumps with the intent to sabotage the transportation lines that relied upon reindeer during the great war .

the confiscated sugar lumps were stored for 8 decades at the police museum in trondheim norway before rediscovery and sent to the defence evaluation research agency chemical and biological defence in porton down united kingdom in 1997 .

and attributed to mutations that occurred during a plasmid-curing regimen  .we can only speculate about the direct linkage between the original texas 1981 ames strains and the porton down sugar isolates of 1998. the porton down scientists were the world leaders in anthrax research and their plasmid-cured ames strain is still in use in reference laboratories worldwide.

this high identity and phylogenetic topology argue that the porton down ames strain and porton down sugar contaminants were derived from the ames material sent in 1982.in the context of spatial separation of analytical and research facilities to avoid contamination there were no dedicated analytical facilities at the porton down defense laboratories in 1998. therefore analysis of the sample had to be conducted in a facilitymarchapril 2017 volume 8 issue 2 e00440-17 2fig 1 high-resolution phylogeny of the ames clade of b. anthracis.

only this ultradiscriminatory power has unraveled the mystery of the historical b. anthracis sugar lumps revealing that the spores really did not survive for this extended period.

strain sugar 1 failed to grow.

