During gestation different inflammatory and effector lymphocytes arise progressively in the blood and in the mucosal tissues including the skin Langerhans cells LCs and dendritic cells DCs and the gut mucosa-associated invariant T MAIT cells innate lymphoid cells ILCs memory-like T cells and neonatal naive IL-8 T cells whereas the lung is colonized after birth T helper 2 TH2 cells and ILC2s.

This leads to the timely production of the main immune cell populations including macrophages B cells from pre-B cells to mature follicular B cells and after birth germinal centre GC B cells and marginal zone MZ B cells and T cells from double-positive DP thymocytes to single-positive SP CD4 and CD8 T cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes CTLs.

FDC follicular dendritic cell NEC necrotizing enterocolitis TCR T cell receptor TEM cell effector memory T cell Treg cell regulatory T cell.Feto-maternal tolerance Tolerance mechanisms that allow safe development of the fetus during pregnancy.

Differences between neonatal and adult leukocytes are observed at the epigenetic level and this accounts for diminished IL-12 responses to Toll-like receptor 4 TLR4 agonists by neonatal antigen-presenting cells APCs and for increased generation of T helper 2 TH2 cells and regulatory T Treg cells from neonatal CD4 T cells.

This is well documented in the context of congenital CMV infection which was previously shown to be associated with the fetal development of mature T cell responses including IFNg-producing CD4 and CD8 ab T cells6162 and gd T cells63.

In adults memory T cells reside in lymphoid sites and all mucosal tissues whereas in the first 2 years after birth naive T cells predominate in the tissues and high numbers of CD4 and CD8 memory T cells are found only in the lungs and small intestine72.Perinatal TH1 versus TH2 paradigm.

Indeed recent studies in humans show that neonatal naive CD4 T cells have an intrinsic preference to adopt a TH2 cell phenotype as indicated by the high expression of an unglycosylated isoform of IL-4 detected by the 8D4-8 monoclonal antibody in resting and stimulated cord blood CD4 T cells compared with expression in adult CD4 T cells73.

They provide rapid on-site immune protection against known pathogens in peripheral tissues.in utero-induced T cells in protection remains unclearbut it is possible that their numbers could be boosted by vaccination.We recently characterized a small population 1-3 of effector memory CD4 ab T cells in neonatal blood68 that shares characteristics with adult tissue-resident memory T cells such as expression of the activation marker CD69 REF.

22 72-77 2016.This study was the first to characterize in detail the T cell compartment including effector memory T cells tissue-resident memory T cells and Treg cells in paediatric tissues such as the lungs andintestine.Hebel K. et al.

In the context of both infection and vaccination there is a predominant view that T cells are biased towards the T helper 2 TH2 type in newborns although this view may be influenced by the large number of vaccines that use alum which isa TH2-type adjuvant3.

