although the relative concentrations of amino acid and alkane presented a growth trend in af the relative concentrations were both 3 at the end of af and aaf.the changes in ethanol in af and aaf were analyzed by hplc fig.

in aaf bacterial richness which showed the same trend as af increased slightly in the first three days of aaf and then decreased.

the previous study analyzed volatile metabolites in aaf whereas we focused on nonvolatile metabolites both in af and aaf.

at 1 day of af bacterial diversity rapidly decreased to eight genera namely lactobacillus 90.4 weissella 4.5 acetobacter 2.5 gluconobacter 0.8 saccharopolyspora 0.7 staphylococcus 0.3 pantoea 0.1 and corynebacterium 0.1. in late af lactobacillus became the dominant bacteria with a relative abundance of 99 and other bacteria such as acetobacter weissella saccharopolyspora and staphylococcus appeared with relative abundances of 0.4. at 12 days of af only two bacterial genera 99.8 lactobacillus and 0.1 acetobacter were detected.

15 bacterial genera at the 1st day of acetic acid fermentation aaf decreasedto 4 genera involving acetobacter 50.9 lactobacillus 47.9 komagataeibacter formerly gluconacetobacter 0.7 and propionibacterium 0.1 at the 7th day of aaf.

vinegar samples from the last batch of aaf are mixed with the alcoholic samples at the beginning of aaf and stirred manually every morning to maintain sufficient oxygen and improve acetic acid production.

komagataeibacter formerly gluconacetobacter and propionibacterium appeared at 5 days of aaf and their abundances increased to 0.7 and 0.1 respectively at the end of aaf.

the variation trend shows that the relative concentration of sugars decreases in the first 3 days of aaf and then increases until the last day of aaf.

however lactic acid influences microorganisms to a lower extent in aaf because its concen- tration decreases along with aaf.

aaf changes into aerobic fermentation and numerous aerobic microorganisms grow rapidly in the early stage of aaf 0 day to 3 days.

the function of ethanol changes in aaf instead of being a stressor ethanol functions as a substrate in aaf which is already known in previous reports-.

the technique of traditional sav involves the preparation of starter daqu com- posed of barley and pea by spontaneous microbial growth on or in approximately 60 of the raw material starch saccharification ss with starter daqu alcoholic fermentation af acetic acid fermentation aaf smoking leaching and aging .

the whole fermentation process including ss af and aaf generally lasts approximately 20-30 days.

therefore the correlations between microbial succession and metabolite changes in the two fermentation stages af and aaf should be further explored to unravel the fermentation mechanism of traditional sav.in this study we tried to establish 1 how metabolites changed along with the succession of microbial commu-nity during the fermentation process of sav and 2 the correlation between metabolite changes and the variation of microbial community.resultsbacterial diversity and community succession in sav fermentation.

acetobacter increased rapidly from 20.8 the 1st day to 50.9 the 7th day and became dominant in aaf in contrast to af.

