these results suggested that the gut microbiome of high feed efficiency pigs might be more available to utilize the diet protein than that of pigs with low feed efficiency.we observed that kegg orthologies related to the metabolism and transport of monosaccharides were negatively associated with porcine feed efficiency figure 4. a previous report suggested that an obesity-associated gut microbiome had increased capacity for energy harvest turnbaugh et al.

2016. taken together the gut microbiome of pigs with low feed efficiency may contribute to the development of host fatness that reduces feed efficiency.in conclusion we detected 31 otus that were potentially linked to porcine feed efficiency by an otu-based association analysis in the 280 duroc pigs.

2016 defined the interaction network of gut microbiota in pigs and found that the enterotype-like clustering was significantly associated with porcine growth traits.feed efficiency is generally expressed as feed conversion ratio fcr or residual feed intake rfi also called net feed efficiency.

we chose 18 fecal samples for metagenomic sequencing including nine samples from the pigs with the low rfi-values high feed efficiency 5 and 4  rfi -0.22 - 0.08 and nine samples with the high rfi-values low feed efficiency 4 and 5  rfi 0.094 - 0.068supplementary figure 1. the 18 animals included five pairs of full-siblings having opposite rfi phenotypes.high-throughput sequencing of bacterial 16s rrna genefecal dna was extracted using qiaamp fast dna stool mini kit qiagen germany according to the manufacturer'sinstructions.

we only identified bordetella avium that was overrepresented in pigs with low feed efficiency figure 3.functional capacity profiling of gut microbiome related to feed efficiency based on metagenomic sequencingfunctional capacity of gut microbiome related to porcine rfi was investigated with metagenomic sequencing data.

understanding how the intestinal microbial community alters the host's capacity for metabolism and energy harvest is a significant issue for improving feed efficiency in the pig production industry.in this study we used 16s rrna gene sequencing and shotgun metagenomic sequencing to uncover the effects of host and environmental factors on the diversity of porcine gut microbial communities and to identify gut microbiota and the potential function capacity correlated with swine feed efficiency.materials and methodsanimal feeding and managementa total of 280 commercial duroc pigs including 169 males and 111 females from shahu farm were used in this study.

36 233-253. doi harris a. j. patience j. f. lonergan s. m. dekkers c. and gabler n. k. 2012. improved nutrient digestibility and retention partially explains feed efficiency gains in pigs selected for low residual feed intake.

we first analyzed the differential kegg genes between high and low rfi pigs and identified 29 kegg orthologies kos showing different enrichments figure 4a fdr  0.05. eleven out of these 29 kos were enriched in the pigs with low feed efficiency high rfi-values including those kos associated with metabolism and transport of monosaccharide k01220 k02777 k02793 k02786 and k01085 and signaltransduction k07719.

only bacterial phosphotransferase system pts and phosphonate and phosphinate metabolism were more abundant in the pigs with high rfi-value while theother eight pathways such as ppar signaling pathway amino acid metabolism fatty acid metabolism and adipocytokine signaling pathway were enriched in those individuals with low rfi-value.discussionin this study we investigated the fecal microbial composition of commercial duroc pigs and systematically evaluated the association of gut microbiome with pig feed efficiency from both enterotype and microbial taxa with 16s rrna gene sequencing and shotgun metagenomic sequencing data.

all authors read and approved the final manuscript.fundingthis work was supported by natural science foundation of china 31472071 natural science foundation of jiangxi province 2013bab20006 and china postdoctoral science foundation bx201700102.supplementary materialthe supplementary material for this article can be found supplementary figure 1  phenotypic distribution of the 18 samples used in metagenomic sequencing.supplementary figure 2  taxonomic distribution of bacterial phyla and genera obtained from 16s rrna gene sequencing.supplementary table 1  phenotypic characteristics of the experimental pigs used in this study.supplementary table 2  summary of metagenomic sequencing data.supplementary table 3  the identified bacterial species not belonging to the host-associated organisms.supplementary table 4  otus showing the tendency associated with porcine rfi p  0.01 fdr  0.1.supplementary table 5  bacterial species showing the tendency associated with porcine rfi with metagenomic sequencing data fdr  0.2.referencesarmstrong t. a. spears j. w. crenshaw t. d. and nielsen f. h. 2000. boron supplementation of a semipurified diet for weanling pigs improves feed efficiency and bone strength characteristics and alters plasma lipid metabolites.

unraveling the microbial taxa and functional capacity of gut microbiome associated with feed efficiency can provide important knowledge to improve pig feed efficiency in swine industry.

different enterotypes showed the tendency of association with the feed efficiency p  0.07. we further identified 31 operational taxonomic units otus showing the potential associations with porcine feed efficiency.

the present results provided important basic knowledge for improving porcine feed efficiency through modulating gut microbiome.keywords feed efficiency gut microbiota metagenome 16s rrna gene swineintroductionfeed costs account for 60-70 of the total costs involved in pig production.

these results provide important insights into how gut microbiome influences porcine feed efficiency and gave the basic knowledge for improving porcine feed efficiency through modulating the gut microbiota in pig industry.author contributionslh conceived and designed the experiments revised the manuscript cc conceived and designed the experiments analyzed the data wrote and revised the manuscript hy performed the experiments analyzed the data and wrote the manuscript zz analyzed the data zw and my measurement of pig phenotypes xh sf mh and yz collected the samples.

u.s.a. 109 594-599. doi haer l. c. m. d. luiting p. and aarts h. l. m. 1993. relations among individual residual feed intake growth performance and feed intake pattern of growing pigs in group housing.

