functional constipation the use of stool samples does not suffer from the aforementioned problems associated with collection of biopsies.While exploration of the functional role of the gut microbiota in fecal transit timehas been attempted inthe past through analysis of urine metabolites the whole gut microbiome metabolic potential and its impact on host physiology and development of functional constipation has yet to be elucidated.

the prevalence showed that these taxa are present in 20 of FC or HS profiles thus indicating the absence of specific microbial biomarkers whose presence or absence is associated with constipation while pointing at a probable role played by the overall gut microbiota at functional level.Figure 1.

the anti-inflammatory genus Feacalibacterium as a biomarker of functional constipation highlights that increased relative abundance of certain taxa in the presence of a gut disorder may not reflect a taxa-specific role in patho- genesis but may be linked to a global alteration of gut microbiota's homeostasis.

OPENReceived 24 May 2017Accepted 9 August 2017 Published xx xx xxxxUnveiling the gut microbiota composition and functionality associated with constipation through metagenomic analysesLeonardo Mancabelli1 Christian Milani 1 Gabriele Andrea Lugli1 Francesca Turroni1 Marta Mangifesta12 Alice Viappiani2 Andrea Ticinesi 3 Antonio Nouvenne3 Tiziana Meschi3 Douwe van Sinderen4  Marco Ventura1Functional constipation FC is a gastrointestinal disorder with a high prevalence among the general population.

The PCoA plot shows that the majority of the samples are grouped as two different clusters that correspond to FC or HS individuals thus highlighting an intriguing difference in microbiota composition between individuals that suffer from functional constipation and healthy individuals Fig.

Here we confirm preliminary findings regarding gut microbiota compositional shifts in individuals affected by FC as compared to healthy controls which are concurrent with a statistically significant increase of the gut microbiota biodiversity.

Furthermore the metabolic capabilities of the gut microbiomes of five FC and five HS individuals were evaluated through shotgun metagenomics using a MiSeq platform indicating that HS are enriched in pathways involved in carbohydrate fatty acid and lipid metabolism as compared to FC.

The bar plot shows the relative difference between the average abundance in HS and FC subjects of each pathway displaying ANOVA with p-value  0.05.glycerol degradation decrease of -58.93 in HS p-value  0.05 Fig.

Interestingly average rarefaction curves revealed a difference between FC and HS samples in that on average the former samples were shown to exhibit a higher level of gut microbiota complexity compared to the latter samples.

FC and HS datasets and corresponding clusters are colored in blue and red respectively.Difference in gut microbiota composition.

