A randomized controlled trial showed that the levels of superoxide dismutases and glutathione in the di- abetic patients with lactic acid lactobacillus fermented milk were higher than those of the control group and the total anti-oxidant status was increased.38 Nowak et al.39 have found that varieties of lactobacilli could reduce genetic toxicity induced by fecal wa- ter.

Yadav et al.43 found that probiotics stimulated glucagon- like peptide-1 secretion by increasing the SCFA content espe- cially improving the level of butyric acid.

While a meta-analysis showed no significant differences in the ef- fectiveness between related and unrelated donors P  0.4648 It has been suggested that male donors are preferred to female do- nors because feces of the latter might carry high-risk factors of IBS.49 Another research indicated gender differences betweendonors and recipients had little effect on disease remission but there owned insufficient evidence.50 Vermeire et al.51 reported that donor species abundance determined the efficacy of FMT for IBD.

This theory is also positively supported by Paramsothy et al.

Youngster et al.53 demonstrated that the overall cure rate of FMT was 90 for the use of unrelated donors.

Ponte et al.56 preferred an upper administration route for FMT and no evidence had proved the superiority of adminis- tration route for FMT.

A recently published meta- analysis showed that the remission rate was 78 79 at 2 weeks after FMT treatment in active pediatric CD.58 Another meta- analysis including a total of 18 studies indicated that the clinical remission rate was 60.5 in patients with CD.59 Rossen et al.60 found that none of the four CD patients achieved remission.

Inhalation pneumonia follow- ing vomiting occurred after treatment with FMT via nasojejunal tube.51 Mayayyedi et al.62 has found that local colitis and rectal abscesses appeared after FMT treatment through enema which might be caused by repeated enema rather than FMT itself because this was also detected in the placebo group.

Brandt et al.64 acquired follow-up data by way of a ques- tionnaire for 77 patients with a mean of 17 months range 3-68.

Ridara et al.65 used obese women's stool to transplant into low-fat mice and found body mass and body mass index of mice increased significantly.

