the urinary tract vir- ome4 for example is ignored in clinical decision-making but may be as important to uti as the respiratory tract virome is to upper respiratory infection.current diagnosisbacteriuriacultures done on agar-based media used since the 19th century to determine presence or absence of bacteria arejags 651650-1655 2017c 2017 copyright the authorjournal compilation c 2017 the american geriatrics society0002-86141715.00table 1. representative definitions of urinary tract infection utidefinitionexamplebacteriuriain all of the included studies uti was defined by the presence of bacteriuria.7a previous study showed that lower urinary tract symptoms are not related to standard bacteriuria in nondysuric ambulatory older men and women mean age 85. serial symptom questionnaires and urine cultures were used to identify a group of individuals who had standard bacteriuria at one time and not at another.

despite this evidence antibiotic treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria is com- mon perhaps because it may be diagnosed as a uti and out of concern that bacteria are not normal inhabitants of the urinary tract1 table 1.uti in the emergency departmentof 25.4 million u.s. adult emergency department ed visits over 8 years during which uti was diagnosed urinary symptoms were identified in only 32. of individuals aged 85 and older 17 had urinary symptoms.16delirium and other geriatric syndromesno evidence suggests that antibiotic treatment of bacteri- uria improves outcomes in individuals with delirium falls confusion or other geriatric syndromes.1718 guidelines and consensus statements do not recommend testing for making the diagnosis of or treating a uti in otherwise asymptomatic noncatheterized long-term care residents who become delirious even if they are febrile table 2. antibiotic treatment for the combination of fever and delirium is accepted regardless of urinary tract findings elsewhere in the statement.29nonetheless the practice is extremely common.

invasive bacterial diseases such as bacteremic bacteriuria and pyelonephritis arise in the urinary tract and like pneumonia in the respiratory tract can be lethal without antibiotic treatment.

pyuria accom- panying bacteriuria is not an indication for antimicrobial treatment.3current treatmentacute uncomplicated cystitisantibiotic treatment for individuals with acute dysuria and significant bacteriuria is standard of care but five random- ized placebo-controlled trials show no benefit beyond modestly faster symptom improvement.10 in the two trials that reported episodes of pyelonephritis and in a separate metaanalysis of five antibiotic treatment trials the inci- dence of pyelonephritis was low and approximately the same in individuals receiving placebo as in those receiving antibiotic treatment.11 a randomized trial of approxi- mately 500 women younger than 65 compared ibuprofen with fosfomycin for treatment of acute cystitis.

acute uncomplicated cystitis rarely progresses tosevere disease even if untreated thus the primary goal of treatment is to ameliorate symptoms.13 the situation is fluid with frequent spontaneous resolution of bacteriuria and of symptoms.814 the generally benign other than symptoms nature of 'symptomatic uti' is suggested by the billions of persons around the world and over the eons who have suffered 'uti' without access to antibiotics and have recovered fully.15asymptomatic bacteriuriapregnant women and individuals scheduled to undergo invasive urinary tract procedures benefit from treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria.

the biological plausibility of a sterile urinary tract is quite low.infectionthe urinary tract resembles the respiratory tract also an open system from alveolus to nose and mouth.

decision- making with or on behalf of long-term care residents with bacteriuria who develop delirium should also include dis- closure of the high prevalence of asymptomatic bacteriuria in stable residents the corresponding likelihood that the bacteriuria is coincidental lack of evidence of benefit from treatment risks imparted by treatment and consistent expert advice counselling against treatment.

urinary tract infection--requiem for a heavyweightthomas e. finucane mdurinary tract infection uti is an ambiguous expan- sive overused diagnosis that can lead to marked harmful antibiotic overtreatment.

emphasizing the microbiome's significance and using the term urinary tract dysbiosis instead of uti might also help and might encourage mindful study of the relation- ships among host aging microbiome disease and antibi- otic treatment.

this notice is included in the online and print versions to indicate that both have been corrected 23 june 2017.rinary tract infection uti is among the most- common reasons for antibiotic treatment in humans.

the question-naire asked about lower urinary tract symptoms other thanbacteriuria and urinarysymptomsuti refers to significant bacteriuria in apatient with symptoms or signs attributable to the urinary tract and no alternate source.

no differences in symptoms were found when bacteriuric subjects were com- pared with themselves when they were nonbacteriuric ... bacteriuria without dysuria in the elderly seems to be asymptomatic.8urinary tract symptoms do not reliably indicate riskurinary symptomsstudy to describe the course of lowerurinary tract infection .. .

the presence of standard bacteriuria should not be part of that decision.joint replacement surgeryan observational study of 1497 individuals undergoing joint replacement found asymptomatic bacteriuria in 12. at 1-year follow-up the rate of prosthetic joint infection was three times as high in individuals with bacteriuria 4.3 as in those without 1.4 p  .001 but antibi- otic treatment of bacteriuria did not reduce the risk of infection and microorganisms isolated in prosthetic joint infections were not the same as those in preoperative urine cultures in any patient with asymptomatic bacteriuria.21 as with incident delirium bacteriuria seems to be more a marker of vulnerability than a cause of disease.insights from the microbiomeurinary tractthe urine-bearing urinary tract extends without interrup- tion from bowman's capsule to the urethral orifice essen- tially a part of the body surface.

basing antibiotic treatment on the results of standard cultures is difficult to justify and has not been shown to be beneficial in individuals with asymptomatic bacteriuria or acute cys- titis.a trial of 673 women mean age 39 with asymp- tomatic bacteriuria and a history of recurrent symp- tomatic uti demonstrated potential harm to the microbiome from antibiotic treatment.

women random- ized to treatment were more likely to have symptomatic uti over 1 year of follow-up than those randomized to no treatment.

