further research is needed to understand the connection between central nervous system and urinary microbiome.keywords bacteria depression overactive bladder psychology urinary microbiomeintroductionthe microbiome is increasingly considered as an essential factor in human health and disease young 2017. following the completion of the national institutes of health human microbiome project there have been numerous studies identifying and cataloging the microbiome in physiological and pathological states including gastrointestinal diseases metabolic diseases infectious diseases and cancer whiteside et al.

the aim of this study was to characterize the female urinary microbiome associated with oab and investigate the relationships between urinary microbiome and psychological factors.methods thirty women with oab and 25 asymptomatic controls were recruited and asked to finish the overactive bladder symptom score self-rating anxiety scale and self-rating depression scale.

2014. another study analyzing urinary microbiome collected from women with uui and asymptomatic controls found that the microbiome from uui displayed decreased lactobacillus and increased gardnerella abundance by sequence analysis and nine genera were more frequently cultured from the uui cohort by culture techniques pearce et al.

2010. we identified 20 bacteria with significantly differential relative abundances between oab microbiome and control microbiome.

2014. evidence suggests that the axis is a complex bidirectional communication network between the gut microbiome and host by which microbiome can modulate brain function and conversely chronic psychological stress may compound the degree of dysbiosis bailey et al.

scott merrell uniformed services universityunited statesreviewed byalan j. wolfe loyola university chicagounited states lisa karstensoregon health  science universityunited statescorrespondencepeng wu  these authors have contributedequally to this work.received 30 july 2017accepted 13 november 2017published 27 november 2017citation wu p chen y zhao j zhang g chen j wang j and zhang h 2017urinary microbiome and psychological factors in women with overactivebladder.

7488. doi objectives emerging evidence indicates that alterations to the urinary microbiome are related to lower urinary tract symptoms.

more information concerning the urinary microbiome and psychological factors in oab is required.

the relationships between the diversity of the urinary microbiome and psychological scores were identified by pearson's correlation coefficient.results we found that bacterial diversity simpson index and richness chao1 were lower in oab samples compared to controls p both  0.038. oab and control bacterial communities were significantly different based on weighted unifrac distance metric r 0.064 p  0.037. lefse demonstrated that 7 genera were increased e.g.

there were negative correlations between scores on self-rating depression scale and both richness chao1 r  -0.458 p  0.011 and diversity shannon index r  -0.516 p  0.003 of urinary microbiome in oab group.

some bacterial genera of oab women with anxiety or depression were significantly different from those without.conclusions the aberrant urinary microbiome with decreased diversity and richness may have strong implications in pathogenesis and treatment of oab.

psychological conditions were correlated with characteristics of urinary microbiome in women with oab.

2014. similar to the influence of microbial communities in other niches alterations to the urinary microbiome may have an effect on urinary tract disorders.

emerging evidence indicates that shifts in the normal microbiome of the bladder may play an important role in pathophysiology of lower urinary tract symptoms luts siddiqui et al.

therefore it is an urgent need to further investigate the pathogenesis of oab and identify new therapeutic target.a brain-gut-microbiome axis between the brain the gut and the gut microbiome has been well identified mayer et al.

