db is co-founder and sab member of eligo bioscience.acknowledgementsfunding this work was supported by the european research council erc under the europe union's horizon 2020 research and innovation program grant agreement no 677823 the french government's investissement d'avenir program laboratoire d'excellence 'integrative biology of emerging infectious diseases' anr-10-labx-62-ibeid the pasteur-weizmann consortium and funds from nc state university and the north carolina ag foundation.references and recommended readingpapers of particular interest published within the period of review have been highlighted asof special interest.. of outstanding interestthis report established a proof of concept that crispr-cas9 systems can be delivered by phages to target e. coli in vitro and in vivo.37.. this study investigated the outcomes of cas9-based self-targeting in bacteria and established the interplay between dna damage and dna repair.28.. .. this is the first report of artificial self targeting by a crispr system.29...this report established a proof of concept that crispr-cas9 systems can be delivered by phages to target s. aureus in vitro and in vivo.this study showed that endogenous crispr-cas systems can be repurposed to generate programmable cell death in bacteria and selec-.. tively target different genotypes in a mixed population.this study provides novel strategies to re-sensitize bacteria to antibiotics30.. using plasmid targeting crispr-cas systems.

it was later shown that self-targeting by type i systems efficiently killed bacteria regardless of the target location 29.. and can lead to the excision of large pieces of dna in the target region 30.. in type i systems the cascade complex binds the target and recruits the cas3 exonuclease leading to extensive dna degradation .

bothcrispr-cas types were nonetheless shown to have the ability to cure plasmids or kill bacteria when reprogrammed to target the chromosome a .the ability to kill a population of bacteria based on its sequence using the type ii system from s. pyogenes was used as a means to select for the introduction of mutations  providing the first evidence of crispr-mediated genome editing in bacteria.

we discuss how they can be readily directed to target undesirable sequences such as anti- biotic resistance and virulence genes with the purpose of eradicating pathogenic bacteria or as a means to destroy the undesirable plasmids they occasionally carry .self-targeting by crispr-cas systems in naturealthough crispr-cas systems are functionally designed to target invasive nucleic acids they can occasionally sample chromosomal dna from their native host.

thermophilus were also used to selectively eliminate even closely related organisms 99 genomic identity by targeting unique sequences in a complex microbial pop- ulation 29... across types and organisms investigators have generally observed that self-targeting using endog- enous crispr-cas systems in bacteria kills the large majority of the bacterial population with killing efficien- cy ranging between 2 and 5 orders of magnitude of cell death with single spacers.causing dna damage with cas nucleases most organisms including bacteria are regularly sub- jected to double stranded breaks and other types of dna damage.

finally anti-crispr proteins or mutations in the target sequence might block target recognition and cleavage.responsible for infectious disease is delivery to the target population with both specificity and efficiency that would afford clinically-relevant efficacy.

in future they might be coopted by bacteria to escape crispr antimicrobial therapies.perspectivescrispr-cas systems have been successfully repurposed to target virulence factors and antibiotic resistance genes in bacteria and constitute an appealing option for pro- grammable and sequence-specific antimicrobials.

this is mechanistically different from type ii systems where cas9 cleaves dna endo-nucleolytically by cutting target dna exactly 3 nt away from the 30 edge of the targeted proto-spacer  using two nickase domains .

dna breaks generated by cas9 can be repaired leading to precise alteration of the dna sequence at the exact site of cleavage essentially editing dna with accuracy.

both studies demonstrated the possibility of using crispr-cas sys- tems to specifically eliminate a target bacterial genotype in a mixed population both in vitro and in vivo using a wax worm infection model in the first case and a mouse skin colonization model in the other.delivering the crispr-cas system to the majority of a target population in a complex environment where the disease agent might be present in only small amounts represents a big challenge.

they can efficiently kill a target population when delivered by phage capsids in vitro and can also reduce the coloni- zation of a target population in vivo.

available online at sciencedirectusing crispr-cas systems as antimicrobialsdavid bikardand rodolphe barrangoualthough crispr-cas systems naturally evolved to provide adaptive immunity in bacteria and archaea cas nucleases can be co-opted to target chromosomal sequences rather than invasive genetic elements.

phage cocktails have traditionally been used to overcome these hurdles by ensuring that at least one phage is able to infect the target bacteria but these cocktails can be complex to formulate and produce at industrial scales and also present additional regulatory challenges .

mutations in the crispr-cas system or in the target can allow bacteria to survive.

several studies have shown how large deletions can occur in the target region enabling bacteria to survive 30.fdifdt0137.50.. such outcomes can be seen as positive as they would result in the loss of antibiotic resistance or virulence traits.

