the rate of constipation in the chd8 cohort 15 children was higher when compared to children diagnosed with asd but negative for the chd8 mutation  suggesting involvement of the chd8 gene in gi dysfunction.to determine the effects of mutating chd8 on gi function bernier and colleagues assessed dose-dependent effects of chd8 mutations using a knockdown approach in zebrafish.

observed that the intestine length in mutant mice was reduced and intestinal transit in 9-week- old mice tended to be slower .relevant to observations in rodent and zebrafish models mutations in the chd8 equivalent homologous gene in dro- sophila kismet result in displaced expression of the hedgehog hh gene and alter the development of the central drosophila wing region .

this article is part of the topical collection on autism spectrumkeywords autism mouse models .

specifically the fre- quency velocity and contraction length of colonic migrating motility complexes cmmcs spontaneous coordinated con- tractile activity which propagates from the oral to the anal region of the colon  were reduced in mutant mice.following examination of the small intestinal histological structure in these mice a reduction in villus height and crypt depth in sert g56a mice was identified.

a neuroligin-3 mutation implicated in autism increases inhibitory synaptic transmission in mice.

excellent introduction to mouse models of autism and the relevant behavioural assays.turner m. annotation repetitive behaviour in autism a review of psychological research.

we will focus on two genetic models the chromodomain helicase dna binding pro- elisa l. hill-yardin 1 florey institute of neuroscience and mental health the university of melbourne 30 royal parade parkville vic 3052 australia2 school of health and biomedical sciences rmit university bundoora melbourne vic 3083 australia3 department of physiology anatomy and microbiology la trobe university plenty road bundoora melbourne vic 3086 australia4 department of physiology the university of melbourne corner of royal parade and grattan st parkville vic 3010 australiatein 8 and serotonin transporter chd8 and sert mouse models respectively and two environmental models valproate vpa and maternal inflammation activation mia of autism because gi abnormalities including altered microbial populations dysbiosis in addition to core asd-relevant behav- ioural phenotypes have begun to be investigated in these models.

these findings were a catalyst for further phenotypic analysis in mice lacking chd8 in order to advance the understanding of disease mechanisms.fig.

and touchscreen tests    which provide a robust method to assess cognitive abilities that are clinically relevantrecently katayama and colleagues examined mice hetero- zygous for mutations in chd8 .

mice homozygous for mutations in either of these chd8 isoforms are embryonic lethal  .

in contrast chd8 heterozygous het mice are viable and show increased anxiety abnormal sensorimotor arousal and gating as tested by prepulse inhibi- tion paradigms altered social interaction in some parameters and increased brain weight .

chd8 het mice had neurodevelopmental delay as identified using mouse brain gene set enrichment analysis and suppression of many neuro- nal genes via the re-1 silencing transcription rest factor.

somewhat surprisingly learning and memory tests did not show major differences in chd8 het mice compared with controls.

in contrast another group found that social behaviour in chd8 het mice was unchanged compared to wild-type littermates .

disruptive chd8 mutations define a subtype of autism early in development.

