to facilitate comparison with past work on this data set  we include a dashed vertical line at a threshold of 0.36. this yields a network from the noise-added data of comparable size to this past work n  300. the location of the noise transition in the green line d near a threshold of 0.30 represents a lower bound on reason- able choices of a threshold.

as a result thresholding may be necessary to address certain classes of ecological questions.to further illustrate the impact of threshold choice on the structure of the induced network we measured five standard network summary statistics as a function of threshold choice.these summary statistics are i the average degree ii the average path length iii the diame- ter which is the maximal-length shortest path among any pair of nodes iv the modularity which quantifies the extent to which nodes cluster into groups with more edges occurring inside groups than expected at random and v the clustering coefficient.if the functional relationship between threshold and network statistic were constant or lin- ear the particular choice of threshold is less likely to impact scientific conclusions that depend on its particular value.

if a null model is chosen well meaning that it incorporates plausible sources of random variation in the data and the com- puted p-value still low typically below the conventional but nevertheless arbitrary threshold of 0.05 then a deviation between the model and the data can indicate the presence of scientifi- cally meaningful processes.here we describe and study two classes of null models for inferring ecological interactions from a matrix of otu abundances.

the three treatments are i the original data ii the original data with the spearman correction and iii the original data with both spearman correction and permutation null distribution.

a further observation is that the smooth variation of the noise-added data treatment indicates that there is no obviously best choice for a threshold except somewhere close to but slightly above the noise transition.this finding illustrates the complexities that arise when using a threshold to extract a net- work from a correlation matrix and suggests that a particular choice requires some justifica- tion or at least a robustness analysis to demonstrate that scientific conclusions do not depend sensitively on that choice.

this figure shows the change of network properties as the similarity score threshold varies between 0 and 1. the red lines represent the unaltered abundance data the blue lines represent the noise-added data to correct rank ties.

the threshold at which the transition between these two regimes occurs is likely to be data dependent and thus should be quantified in order to clarify the confounding role that network size and density have on other network measures.choosing a threshold for significant interactions.

here we have adapted and demonstrated simple and appropriate null models for addressing this question at both the network extraction and the analysis steps and we used them to reanalyze a previously studied large soil microbiome data set.after adding noise to the sparse otu abundance data we examined in detail the difficulty of choosing a similarity threshold.

the permuted data quickly transitions to having 1 of the otus in the largest component this is where we set the lower bound for the similarity score threshold.thresholdingthe threshold that we use 0.36 produces a network of approximately 300 nodes from the sparsity-corrected spearman score data.

unlike typical methods such as hypothesis tests the goal here is choose a threshold that produces an otu network that corresponds with ecology.however given that we have only observational data from this complex environment the threshold choice cannot be driven by p-values or false discovery rates.

we demonstrate this approach by applying it to a large soil microbiome data set and show that many previously reported pat- terns for these data are statistical artifacts.

we close with a brief discussion of the utility of null models in studying observational data and the ecological significance of triangles and modularity in microbial co-occurrence networks.resultstwo classes of null modelsnull models are a standard statistical approach for reliably identifying data patterns that can- not be attributed to simple sources of random variation.

second in order to choose a threshold for significant interactions we use matrix permutations to generate artificial matrices with the same naturally high variance as the data but which lack the correlations that are generatedby ecological processes.

if any pair of otus in the tie-breaking model has a corre- lation score above this threshold we call this interaction statistically significant and include it in the interaction network any correlation below the threshold is discarded.in the second class of null models we ask whether particular statistical patterns in the distri- bution of these interactions across the network are likely the result of random connectivity and thus unlikely to be caused by ecological processes.

to illustrate the importance of examining microbial abundance data with respect to the two null model classes we apply these methods to previously collected data on soil microbes sampled from 151 sites in north and south america .

