crispatus was significantly increased at higher co2 p 0.003 but this was not observed in bvec02i p 0.14. although not signifi- cant there were general trends across the vbc in both vec indi- cating increases in l. gasseri associated with the higher co2 conditions .the substantial impact of higher co2 on l. jensenii l. crispatus and l. gasseri appeared to mask other alterations leading to selec- tion of vbc that contained defined profiles for focused compari- sons.

in both vbc the exogenous l. jensenii became the dominant organism after 48 h in 5 co2 conditions b. at 10 co2 the non-native exogenous l. jensenii expanded from 74.1 to 86.5 in the healthy vbc7 and from 70 to 92 in the dysbiotic vbc1 b. both native vbc contained proportions of l. crispatus that also expanded after cultivation in higher co2 levels as seen in previous studies but failed to surpass the growth of the exogenousl.

vbc organisms are designated by the same colors as indicated in the legend of .in contrast to the contraction of l. iners observed in v19icultures bvec02i vec produced vbcs with enhanced l. iners pro- portions at higher co2 a vbcs 8 3 and 4. the average abundance of l. iners in all tested vbc that contained a proportion of this organism illustrated consistent but not significant increases in bvec02i cultures  p 0.09. consistent with the results in v19i bvec02i vec also supported a dominant expansion ofl.

specifically cst i communities are dominated by l. crispatus cst ii by l. gasseri cst iii by l. iners and cst v by l. jensenii .

as shown in a v19i vec cultures colonized by vbc1 dominated by g. vaginalis bright red and l. crispatus bright blue vbc2 dominated by g. vaginalis and l. gasser turquoise or vbc5 dominated by g. vaginalis and l. jensenii orange showed consistent but not significant proportional suppression ofg.

consis- tent with this contraction vbc4 l. iners dominated colonization showed proportionally reduced l. iners at 10 co2 relative to the 5 co2 cultures a p 0.75. in fact vbcs that were dominated by or contained measurable l. iners consistently experienced a reduction in this species during cultivation in v19i cultures at 10 co2.

across the tested vbc an average 3.5-fold increase in l. jensenii was observed  p 0.0001. vbc2 5 and 6 cultivated in bvec02i cultures produced similar l. jensenii proportions to those observed in v19i at aa 10 co2 a vs. 2b.

a vbc with native l. iners with or without g. vaginalis illustrated the observed expansion of l. iners in 10 co2.

remaining targets were used to create baseline gene expression values for sterile cultures at 5 and 10 supplemented co2 and used as comparators for parallel cultures created with vbc with or without l. jensenii supplementation as shown in b. up-regulated expression is depicted on the heat map in red down regulation by green and average fold change is shown in the table.expression patterns for the immune response and signaling genes impacted by shifted vbc a clustered the samples based on co2 supplementation 5 co2 outcomes clustered on the left.

some in vitro studies support this finding given that culture conditions affect the production of metabolites and anti- microbials associated with vaginal health such as h2o2 and lactic acid e. understanding the impact of species relationships in the vbc will be a crucial step forward in the development of opti- mized probiotic approaches that have had mixed results to date .specifically our results illustrated that l. jensenii absolute abundance expanded consistently and significantly during culti- vation with increased luminal co2 in vbc tested in v19i and in bvec02i cultures p 0.022 and 0.0001 respectively.

evaginal ecosystem modeling of growth patterns of anaerobic bacteria in microaerophilic conditionsaudrie a. medina-colorado  kathleen l. vincent  aaron l. miller  carrie a. maxwell  lauren n. dawson  trevelyn olive  elena v. kozlova  marc m. baum richard b. pyles   a department of pediatrics university of texas medical branch galveston tx usab department of obstetrics and gynecology university of texas medical branch galveston tx usac department of microbiology and immunology university of texas medical branch galveston tx usad department of pathology university of texas medical branch galveston tx usae oak crest institute of science monrovia ca usaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 1 november 2016 received in revised form 21 april 2017accepted 24 april 2017available online 26 april 2017 handling editor raina fichorovakeywordsvaginal microbiome lactobacillus jensenii lactobacillus crispatus microaerophiles anaerobesaerobesa b s t r a c t the human vagina constitutes a complex ecosystem created through relationships established between host mucosa and bacterial communities.

for this schema ct1 showed l. crispatus domination ct2 was dominated by l. iners ct3 by gardnerella spp and ct4 containing mixed vmb communities that included pre- votella spp .additional ngs and other 'omic approaches correlated to clinicaldatasets have provided associative outcomes that implicate growing lists of environmental behavioral and genetic confounders influencing the vmb profile e. such associations have linked inflammatory profiles and vmbs associated with symptomatic bv dominated by traditionally defined anaerobes includingg.

vaginalis an average 13.2 fold reduction in absolute abundance when cultivated in aa 10 co2 a p 0.1019. in contrast vbc3 dominated by g. vaginalis and l. iners orchid showed a distinct expansion of g. vaginalis average increase of 12 fold and a contraction of l. iners although not significantly different.

b lactobacilli dominated vbc7 or bv-associated bacteria dominated vbc1 bacterial communities that lacked l. jensenii were supplemented with 103 l. jensenii cfu prior to application to sterile v19i multilayers.

finally l. gasseri showed enhanced growth in selected vbcs but was not increased significantly in these studies.remarkably l. iners categorized as an anaerobic vaginal lacto- bacilli when grown in monoculture  was not enhanced by increased co2 when cultivated in community settings on v19i vec multilayers.

