However because the proportion of women with L. crispatus dominance was similar in women assigned to tenofovir gel and placebo gel 51 versus 49 the HIV incidence differ- ences between these two groups of women are not due to L. crispatus.

Stratifying LD and non-LD women separately on adherence demonstrates that gel adherence 50 was as- sociated with higher efficacy in preventing HIV in LD women than in non-LD women Table 1.

These findings may have broader implications for other topical antiretroviral deliv- ery strategies such as vaginal rings for tenofovir- based HIV prevention.The prevalence of Lactobacillus dominance in women in CAPRISA 004 59 was comparable to that observed in self-described black women from a North American study 58 12 but con- siderably lower than that reported in Caucasian women 90.

Tenofovir reduced HIV incidence by 61 P  0.013 in Lactobacillus-dominant women but only 18 P  0.644 in women with non-Lactobacillus bacteria a threefold difference in efficacy.

This study provides evidence linking vaginal bacteria to microbicide efficacy through tenofovir depletion via bacterial metabolism.Masymptomatic and can often go undetected using traditional Amsel's criteria 15 andor the Nugent's score used to diagnose BV 16.Bacterial vaginosis is associated with poor re- productive health outcomes and increased HIV infection risk in women 17  by as much as 60 in some meta-analyses of women with BV 18.

Given that women from sub- Saharan Africa have high prevalence rates of BV21 and that HIV prevention strategies are being targeted for women in these areas we inves- tigated whether vaginal microbial communities may affect the efficacy of antiretroviral-based pre- vention technologies especially those that are topically applied to the vaginal surface.Characterization of the vaginal microbiome using unbiased metagenomic metatranscriptomic and metaproteomic approaches represents a po- tential paradigm shift in understanding host- microbial interactions at the mucosal surface in vivo.

In this work we used a metaproteomic approach to assess whether vaginal bacteria modulate the efficacy of the topical microbicide tenofovir in pre- venting HIV infection and we also used in vitro systems to determine mechanisms of microbiome influence on tenofovir.Vaginal microbial diversity in women using tenofovir or placebo microbicide gelsSamples from 688 HIV-negative women that were assigned to either the tenofovir or the placebo-gel arm were analyzed by protein mass spectrometry as outlined in the materials and methods fig.

Within each of the groups of LD and non-LD women the num- ber of individuals assigned to tenofovir gel andplacebo gel was similar table S2.Vaginal microbial profiles and tenofovir gel efficacyIn the LD group the HIV incidence rate was 61 lower 95 confidence interval CI 0.16 to 0.89 in women assigned to tenofovir gel compared with those assigned to the placebo gel 2.7 versus 6.9 per 100 women-years where 1 woman-year is de- fined as 1 year of study observation of one woman incidence rate ratio IRR  0.39 P  0.013 Fig.

Although the HIV incidence rate of 4.8 per 100 women- years in LD women was 32 lower 95 CI 0.4 to 1.12 than the 7.1 per 100 women-years in non- LD women this was not statistically significant P  0.127 fig.

Comparison of L. crispatus-dominant women to all others as a single group L. iners-dominant and non-LD women produced similar findings 50 lower HIV incidence 3.1 versus 6.0 per 100 women- years 95 CI 0.16 to 1.60 P 0.237.

