further studies are needed to evaluate the potential of altering the spectra of vaginal microbiota andor the concentrations of vaginal components such as lactic acid   as effective strategies to enhance vaginal health.

therefore in tissue culture experiments we investigated the effect of lactobacillus-cm on hiv-1.extrapolated to in vivo our results may explain why the presence of normal vaginal microbiota which include multiple species of lactobacillus is associated with a decreased risk of hiv acquisition in uninfected women   and with lower hiv genital shedding in infected women      .the positive effects of lactobacilli on the health of the female genital tract are generating increasing interest in their use in probiotic formulations for the prophylaxis and therapy of several vaginal disturbances      .

lactobacillus-cell pellets cp were washed in sterile saline solution 0.9 nacl supplemented with 0.05 l-cysteine and resuspended in antibiotic-free modified medium.ex vivo tissue cultures and hiv-1 infectionhuman cervico-vaginal tissue explants obtained from routine hysterectomy national disease research interchange philadelphia pa united states and tonsillar tissue children's national medical center washington dc united states were dissected and cultured as described in  with slight modifications.

furthermore in order to evaluate the effect of low ph on hiv-1 replication in tissues ex vivo as measured in lactobacillus- cm undiluted average around ph 4 and diluted 15 up to ph 6.9 we evaluated hiv-1 infectivity in ex vivo tissue at ph 4 and ph 6.9 buffering the medium with hydrochloric acid hcl.evaluation of hiv-1 replicationwe evaluated hiv-1 replication on tissue by measuring the levels of p24gag in tissue culture medium using a dynamicimmunofluorescent cytometric bead assay as described by .statistical analysiswe performed all statistical analyses using anova test graphpad prism version 7 graphpad prism software inc. san diego ca united states.

further studies are needed to evaluate the potential of altering the spectra of vaginal microbiota as an effective strategy to enhance vaginal health.

in particular lactobacilli have been reported to protect against vaginal transmission of human immunodeficiency virus hiv      .although many hypotheses have been formulated regarding the protective effects of lactobacilli the exact mechanisms of hiv inhibition by vaginal lactobacilli remain to be fully elucidated.

also the inhibition of hiv transmission has been reported to be mediated by lactobacilli that affect vaginal epithelia modulate bacterial vaginosis or change local or systemic immune responses    .here we investigated the role of vaginal lactobacilli on hiv type-1 hiv-1 infection of human lymphoid tissues and of human cervico-vaginal tissues ex vivo.

no statistically significant inhibition of hiv-1 replication in cervico- vaginal or tonsillar tissues was observed when the culturemedium was buffered to ph 6.9 21.6 - 18.8 p  0.1492 n  2 and 14.28 - 10.19 p  0.9 n  3 respectively.virucidal capacity of lactobacillus cells against hiv-1in order to understand if vaginal lactobacillus themselves are able to suppress hiv-1 infectivity the virucidal capacities of six strains l. crispatus bc3 bc5 l. gasseri bc12 bc13 and l. vaginalis bc16 bc17 were studied.

a lactobacillus-dominated microbiota appears to be a biomarker for a healthy vaginal ecosystem as changes in the vaginal microbiota especially shifting away from lactobacillus dominance are associated with bacterial vaginosis and increased risks of acquisition of sexually transmitted infections      in particular hiv            .

although the porcine vaginal mucosa system offered advantages over single-cell cultures it may not reflect important features of the human system in particular those of human mucosal epithelia which are crucial for interactions of hiv with other pathogens.to address the effects of lactobacilli on hiv-1 infection in the context of human tissues we first colonized them ex vivo with 15 different strains of lactobacillus that were isolated from vaginal swabs of healthy premenopausal women.

however during vaginal intercourse vaginal fluid is diluted by hiv-containing semen resulting in neutral ph  .

1999. acid production by vaginal flora in vitro is consistent with the rate and extent of vaginal acidification.

human tissues ex vivo may serve as a test system for these strategies.keywords lactobacillus hiv-1 human tissue lactic acid phintroductionthe vaginal microbiota of healthy reproductive-age women is generally dominated by lactobacillus species  .

3tc lamivudine at 10 um was used as a positive control for hiv-1 inhibition.lactobacillus colonization on tonsillar explants and evaluation of tissue cell depletiontonsillar tissues were colonized with 15 vaginal lactobacillus strains 27 blocks per condition at a starting inoculum of 104 cfuml.

in the culture medium buffered to ph 4 hiv-1 replication was reduced in both cervico- vaginal 90.1 0.1 p  0.0001 n 3 and tonsillar tissue88.0 17.5 p 0.0003 n 3 compared with control tissue blocks cultured in regular medium .

