our study highlighted the existence of robust clusters of bacterial species sharing a common mac degradation profile in the italian gm allowing the stratification of the individual gm into different steady states according to the carbohydrate degradation profile with possible connections with diet and health.keywords gut microbiota microbiota-accessible carbohydrates cazymes co-abundance groups type 2 diabetesintroductionthe large ensemble of bacteria that stably inhabit the distal part of our gastrointestinal tract namely the gut microbiota gm is of vital importance for many physiological functions of our organism exerting a key role in several biological processes such as nutrition immune function and the regulation of the central nervous system         .

in this scenario the dietary polysaccharides that are metabolically available to gut microbes have been specifically defined as microbiota-accessible carbohydrates macs    and their abundance in the host diet and consequently their availability within the gut has proved to be crucial for microbiota-host homeostasis.the mac availability in the host diet is among the aspects that have deeply changed in recent human evolutionary history with the transition from paleolithic hunting-gathering to neolithic rural populations and contemporary westernized societies        .

112 642-648. koh a. de vadder f. kovatcheva-datchary p. and backhed f. 2016. from dietary fiber to host physiology short-chain fatty acids as key bacterial metabolites.

      and unit of microbial ecology of health department of pharmacy and biotechnology university of bologna bologna italyedited bygayane manukyan institute of molecular biologynas ra armeniareviewed bymaryam dadar razi vaccine and serum researchinstitute iran mario m. d'elios university of florence italycorrespondence simone rampelli specialty section this article was submitted to microbial immunologya section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 31 july 2017accepted 11 october 2017published 24 october 2017citation soverini m turroni s biagi e quercia s brigidi p candela m and rampelli s 2017 variationof carbohydrate-active enzyme patterns in the gut microbiotaof italian healthy subjects and type 2diabetes patients.

82079.doi the human gut microbiota gm has been associated to date with various complex functions essentials for the host health.

conversely the gut microbiome i.e.

this inter-kingdom cross-feeding is the basis of the mutualistic relationship we share with our intestinal microbial counterpart which thus emerges as a key player in the co-metabolism of complex carbohydrates in our gut.

this was confirmed by gut metagenome studies comparing the cazyme repertoire between traditional populations consuming high-fiber diets and western urban citizens which highlighted a relevant reduction of the microbial cazyme diversity in the latter      .

interestingly the ability to degrade rs was evenly spread among the different ccgs.cazyme distribution in the gut microbiome of italian individuals associations with the diet and health statuswe next explored the variation of ccg profiles in italian subjects also in association with the dietary pattern and health conditions.

to compare the ccg distribution among individual gut microbiomes for each ccg the sum of the abundances of constituent microorganisms was calculated andthe personal profile of ccg abundance in the gm was computed for each subject.

although both studies are based on relatively small cohorts and a more extensive screening at the population level is needed these data seem to suggest a certain level of country specificity in the gut microbiome structure which may contribute to the immunological and metabolic peculiarities of the populations.according to our findings the bacterial species belonging to the italian pan-microbiome showed two different types of mac-degrading profiles essentially characterized by a high or low content of glycosyl-hydrolase-coding sequences respectively.

the four cts each determined by the ccg propensity to share the same gut environment and each conferring to the host a specific pattern of cazymes.in order to explore possible associations of these cts with the host diet and health we explored their variation in italian healthy adults consuming a mediterranean diet and obese t2d patients consuming a high-fat low-macs diet.

indeed the steady states cts 2 and 4 that were generally associated with healthy hosts seem to be the result of an adaptive microbiome- host co-evolution process in which the interplay between diet gut microorganisms and the host can contribute to overall metabolic health.

all authors discussed the results commented on the manuscript and approved the final version.supplementary materialthe supplementary material for this article can be found online at table s1  prevalence data and average abundance of the identified 98 bacterial species in the dataset.referencesbhattacharya t. ghosh t. s. and mande s. s. 2015. global profiling of carbohydrate active enzymes in human gut microbiome.

2016. modulation of gut microbiota dysbioses in type 2 diabetic patients by macrobiotic ma-pi 2 diet.

