gambiae and is more reliant on co2 to locate hosts than are extremely anthro- pophilic species takken  verhulst 2013. a mix of volatiles released by human skin bacteria was significantly more attrac- tive to both mosquito species than volatiles released by the skin bacteria of a cow or a chicken.

both mosquito species can distinguish between volatiles from bacteria collected from different host species and respond differently to volatiles from individual species of skin bacteria.

follow-up experiments in a field setting in which mosquitoes of different populations with different host preferences occur should further confirm the roles of skin bacterial volatiles in host selection.the experiment with individual species of bacteria showed that the two mosquito species respond differently to volatiles from bacteria that are common on human and animal skin.

gambiae complex in kenya with different host prefer- ences respond differently to skin bacterial volatiles from natural hosts and to bacterial volatiles from individual species of bac- teria.in the initial experiment traps with bacteria caught sig- nificantly higher numbers of an.

arabiensis to vocs pro- duced by skin bacteria from three different host species or from previously tested species of bacteria verhulst et al.

1. the interaction between mosquito species and host species was significant glm p  0.002 indicating that the two mosquito species responded differently to the bacterial volatiles released fig.

different letters indicate significant differences between treatments and between the two mosquito species glm p  0.05. colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com.evidence of the importance of skin bacterial volatiles to the host-seeking behaviour of mosquitoes verhulst et al.

to confirm this and to find other common skin bacterial volatiles that mediate host pref- erence a next step would be to determine the volatile profiles of different groups of hosts by gas chromatography-mass spec- trometry and in addition to define their bacterial profiles by 16s rrna sequencing.in this study skin bacterial samples were taken from specific parts of the human cow and chicken body which will have influenced the bacterial composition of the samples grice et al.

the host preferences of the anthropophilic mosquito species in the anophe- les gambiae complex diptera culicidae are mediated by skin bacterial volatiles.

anopheles gambiae preferred volatiles from c. minutissimum to volatiles from other species of bacteria.

gambiae and some species of bacteria are more attractive than others volatiles from corynebacterium minutissimum are highly attractive whereas volatiles from pseudomonas aeruginosa are poorly attractive to an.

2015 in order to support a comparison of the results obtained with skin bacterial volatiles and those achieved using volatiles collected directly from the skin.

2004 whereas staphylococcus species which are also very abundant on human skin council et al.

consent to collect skin bacteria was obtained from the 34-year-old man and the owner of the cow and chicken.statistical analysisa generalized linear model glm assuming a binomial distribution with logit link function was used to investigate the relative attractiveness of each combination of bacteria tested in the traps expressed as the number of caught mosquitoes per species in one of the traps divided by the total number of mosquitoes of that species caught in all traps during eachc 2017 the authors.

gambiae prefers bloodmeals from selected host species verhulst et al.

