The findings observed in our study such as several predicted functions in OSCC presentingsame patterns as periodontitis and periodontitis-related taxa being significantly enriched in OSCC indicate the pro-inflammatory potential of the bacterial communities of OSCC samples which is consistent with a recent study.

evaluated the diversity and relative abundance of bacteria in the saliva of subjects with OSCC however only three OSCC cases and two healthy controls were included.

In another report saliva bacterial communities in six OSCC patients were elucidated by performing pyrosequencing and paired taxa within the family Enterobacteriaceae together with the genus Oribacterium were suggested to distinguish OSCC samples from oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma OPSCC and normal samples.

Al-hebshi successively profiled bacterial communities within 23 OSCC tissue samples from Yemeni patients at the species level providing the first epidemiological evidence for associations of Fusobacterium nucleatum and Pseudomonas aeruginosa with OSCC.

To unravel the connections underlying oral bacterial dysbiosis and oral squamous cell carcinoma OSCC cancer lesion samples and anatomically matched normal samples were obtained from the same patients.

We then profiled the bacteria within OSCC lesion surface samples at the species level using next-generation sequencing to comprehensively investigate bacterial community composition and functional genes in these samples.

In particular a groupof periodontitis-correlated taxa including Fusobacterium Dialister Peptostreptococcus Filifactor Peptococcus Catonella and Parvimonas was significantly enriched in OSCC samples.

Additionally several operational taxonomic units OTUs associated with Fusobacterium were highly involvedin OSCC and demonstrated good diagnostic power.

Our study revealed drastic changes in surface bacterial communities of OSCC.

In contrast to traditional views recent analyses suggest the involvement of a consortium of microbes rather than a single species as causing disease a phenomenon that has been well characterized for periodontal diseases.Oral cancer primarily oral squamous cell carcinoma OSCC deriving from the oral mucosa is a disease thatarises from both host genetics and environmental factors tobacco and alcohol consumption betel quid chewing and human papillomavirus infection are well-known risk factors.

