axis labels mds represent the multi-dimensional scalingalthough an understanding of the variation in the function of animal-associated bacterial communities across elevations is scarce in free-living soil microbial communities changes in environmental factors across elevations were associated with changes in community function therefore influencing microbe-mediated nitrogen dynamics .while the structure of bacterial communities on s. flotator was also relatively consistent among sites with the exception of lowcope there was variation across sites in metabolite profiles.

unless noted all analyses were conducted in r version 3.2.2 .alpha and beta diversity analysesalpha diversity comparisons of skin bacterial communities between elevations and across sites were conducted for rich- ness otusindividual phylogenetic diversity and the shannon index h' which assessed community evenness.

considering the minimal variation in community structure of these bacterial communities across sites we suggest that fur- ther characterization of the functions of these communities could be a promising area of research to elucidate how diver- sity influences function across environmental gradients.

however we observed significant differences among sites for all the metrics richness deviance  60.62 p  0.001 shannon f  10.36 p  0.001 phylogenetic diversity f  5.2 p  0.001. alpha diversity pairwise comparisons among sites showed a poten- tial west to east trend especially for richness and phylogenetic diversity estimates where the sites west of the panama canal had significantly higher diversity estimates than those on the east side fig.

microb ecol 2017 74227-238 doi 10.1007s00248-017-0933-yvariation in metabolite profiles of amphibian skin bacterial communities across elevations in the neotropicsdaniel medina1  myra c. hughey1  matthew h. becker1  jenifer b. walke1 thomas p. umile 2  elizabeth a. burzynski2  anthony iannetta2 kevin p. c. minbiole 2  lisa k. belden1received 23 august 2016  accepted 4 january 2017  published online 19 january 2017 springer sciencebusiness media new york 2017abstract both the structure and function of host-associated microbial communities are potentially impacted by environ- mental conditions just as the outcomes of many free-living species interactions are context-dependent.

as bd has been associated with drastic global amphibian population de- clines  and infects over 500 amphibian species across the globe  interest has grown in understanding the factors that shape these microbial communities and their function.in general relatively little is known about how envi- ronmental factors influence the structure and function of host-associated microbial communities although there is certainly appreciation more broadly for the role of con- text dependency in determining the outcome of symbi- otic interactions -.

in addition the absence of an elevational pattern in the diversity of these amphibian-associated bacterial communities seems to be somewhat consistent with observations of free-living soil bacterial communities where no consistent elevational pat- terns have been observed.

this could partially explain the variable results regarding skinbacterial communities across bd exposure experiments and across field studies working on distinct species   -.we found that a very small fraction 0.7 of the otus found on s. flotator can be considered as members of the core microbiome.

we calculated the corrected p values for the multiple comparisons based on the bonferroni procedure using the groupsignificance script in qiime.resultsbacterial community diversity and structurenone of the three metrics of alpha diversity of bacterial com- munities differed between high and low elevations richness kh2  0.06 p  0.81 shannon kh2  0.01 p  0.92 phyloge- netic diversity kh2  0.24 p  0.62 table s1a.

some amphibian species har- bor bacterial skin communities that can inhibit the growth of bd and therefore there is interest in understanding whether environmental context could also alter these host-associated microbial communities in a way that might ultimately impact bd dynamics.

species-specific responses of skin bacterial communities to bd might add complexity to the studies addressing the ecological processes shaping the composition structure and function of these communities.

across ele- vations frogs had similar skin bacterial communities al- though one lowland site appeared to differ.

in recent decades culture- independent molecular techniques have rapidly expand- ed our knowledge of the diversity ubiquity and func- tional ability of these symbiotic communities.

for example the use of 16s rrna gene amplicon sequencing has provid- ed important insights into the structure-function relation- ship in soil microbial communities where functional redundancy might be present in important soil microbial processes  and in the gut microbiome of mammals in which functional repertoires of microbiome genes can be predicted by the structure of the bacterial community .one key function of host-associated microbes on animal hosts is host defense against pathogens which has been ob- served across distantly related host taxa including corals shrimp hydra insects birds humans and amphibians -.

in the present study we aimed to determine how the diversity struc- ture and potential function represented by metabolite pro- files of skin bacterial communities on amphibians vary with elevation.

