correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to n.d. email ontogenesis in which breastfeeding allows the early vertical transmission of a specific gut pioneering community that differs from the environmental community.to investigate further the contribution of different factors in shaping fish gut microbiota we thoroughly documented the gut microbiota ontogenesis of a progeny of discus fish symphysodon aequifasciata.

good's coverage estimation used to assess the sampling effort indicated a mean estimated coverage of 98 - 2 minimum of 91 to maximum of 100. our main results suggest that 1 early stage discus larvae gut microbiota is similar to environmental water bacterioplankton which is mostly composed of proteobacteria 2 the composition of the microbiota of whole larvae and fry feces is dominated by the genera bacteroides and cetobacterium 3 the fry feces microbiota taxonomic structure is not significantly different from parental microbiota at 80-100 dph 4 the most abundant taxa shaping the structure of the fry gut microbiota originate either from the parents' skin mucus or environmental water depending on the number of dph and5 the adult discus cutaneous mucus microbiota structure undergoes a significant taxonomic shift when parents are rearing fry.characterization of the discus gut microbiota ontogenesis.

openreceived 23 february 2017accepted 31 may 2017 published xx xx xxxxvertically and horizontally transmitted microbial symbionts shape the gut microbiota ontogenesis of a skin-mucus feeding discus fish progenyfrancois-etienne sylvain nicolas deromefish gut microbial communities play key functions for their hosts but their ontogenesis is poorly understood.

our main results suggest that specific microbial symbionts both from the parents skin mucus and environmental water play important roles in shaping the structure of the fry gut microbiota.the gut microbiota plays major roles in immunity growth and energy utilizationof the host.

therefore early gut microbiota ontogenesis in most fish appears to be different from mammalian gut microbialinstitut de biologie integrative et des systemes universite laval biology department 1030 avenue de la medecine quebec qc canada g1v 0a6.

we hypothesize that this vertical microbial transmission from the parental skin mucus along with neutral horizontal transmission of environmental microbial symbionts helps to shape the taxonomic structure of the discus fry gut microbiota.to our knowledge the ontogenesis of the gut microbiota of teleosts exhibiting specialized vertical feeding parental care behavior such as symphysodon aequifasciata has never been documented.

in our study we aimed to 1 describe the gut microbiota ontogenesis of a progeny of discus fry 2 identify the contribution of the different microbial reservoirs water parents mucus adult diet in shaping the mature gut microbiota and 3 document potential taxonomic shifts in the cutaneous mucus microbiota of adult discus during the parenting phase.

it is possible that the prevalence of proteobacteria at the onset of gut microbiota ontogenesis is related to the oppor- tunistic nature of several strains in this phylum that can colonize the gut in early development when weaktable 3. potential vertical transmission of microbial symbionts from parents' skin mucus to fry through skin mucus feeding behavior 4-20 dph.

this resistance increases later during develop- ment as the gut is colonized by a more specific microbiota.then as soon as fry started mucus-feeding on their parents 4-20 dph major taxonomic shifts of the gut microbiota composition of the fry occurred fig.

therefore we cannot confirm whether the relative abundance increase of members of the erysipelotrichaceae especially erysipelothrix in our study is related to a potential role played by this taxa in the lipid metabolism in the fry gut or if this increase is merely due to the weak colonization resistance offered by commensal gut symbi- onts at early developmental stages.after weaning from 21 dph discus fry started eating the adult's diet.

interestingly a similar pattern of increasing alpha diversity during gut microbiota ontogenesis was reported in damselfish thus suggesting that fish gut microbiota patterns of alpha diversity during ontogenesis are species-specific.table 4. the most abundant fecal microbial symbionts of the fry after mucus feeding 80-100 dph are differentially shared between the fry and three microbial niches which are potential sources of symbionts for inoculation of the fry microbiota during development breeding discus mucus adult diet and environmental water.

at the developmental stage 80-100 dph the fry gut community is not significantly different from the adult gut micro- biota suggesting that microbiota composition reached maturity.

consequently many of our results the post-weaning diversification the increasing diversity with dph and the fast maturation of the gut microbiota suggest that discus fish have a mammalian-like gut microbiota ontogeny.this conclusion is also supported by the results of the recruitment analysis fig.

recent studies on the zebrafish suggest that gut symbionts are recruited naturally through horizontal transmission from environmental water.

we used an alternative fish model the discus symphysodon aequifasciata to identify the main factors driving fish gut microbiota ontogenesis.the discus exhibits a unique parenting behavior both discus parents vertically feed their fry with a cutaneous mucus secretion during three weeks post-hatching.

