vsg-induced reductions in blood pressure may be driven by a decrease in hypothalamic er stress and inflammatory signaling and shifts in gut microbial populations.key words vertical sleeve gastrectomy hypertension er stress mouse modelintroductionbariatric surgery is currently the most effective long-term treatment for obesity and results in high rates of remission for type 2 diabetes and hypertension furthermore bariatric surgery produces a greater reduction in arterial blood pressure ap than medical management alone however the mechanisms by which this occurs remain elusive.

while the mechanisms mediating the improvement in glucose homeostasis after bariatric surgery are being studied extensively surprisingly few preclinical studies have been conducted to improve our understanding of how bariatric surgery causes hypertension remission.vertical sleeve gastrectomy vsg has gained popularity as a bariatric procedure that produces weight loss and improves glucose regulation and cardiovascular disease outcomes at rates similar to roux-en-y gastric bypass rygb and is currently one of the most commonly performed bariatric procedures vsg involves removal of 70 of the stomach by transecting the greater curvature of the stomach.

however remission of type 2 diabetes and hypertension have been reported within days after surgery prior to significant body mass loss thus the human clinical literature suggests that there are body mass-independent mechanisms contributing to hypertension remission after bariatric surgery.two potential contributors to the body mass-independent effect of bariatric surgery to reduce ap are reductions in brain er-stress signaling and shifts in gut microbial populations.

similar to previous studies in rats r heart mass did not significantly differ between groups 1d.leptin is an adipocyte-derived hormone that is often elevated in obesity and has been shown to contribute to obesity-associated increases in blood pressure  as expected vsg surgery significantly reduced circulating leptin levels compared with levels in s-al mice at 2.5 months after surgery  2a p0.05.

data are expressed as mean-s.e.m.vsg surgery decreases apmean arterial blood pressure map was reduced in s-wm relative to s-al mice during the light phase at 5 weeks after surgery 3a p0.05.

map was lower in vsg compared with s-wm during both the light and dark cycles at 7 weeks after surgery demonstrating a body mass- independent effect of vsg surgery to reduce map p0.05.

furthermore these data demonstrate that the effect of vsg to lower er stress and inflammation is not found throughout the brain.reductions in hypothalamic er stress and inflammatory signaling have been shown to reduce ap by decreasing sympathetic outflow indeed work in rodent models shows that increased er stress and inflammatory signaling in the hypothalamus increases ap and sympathetic tone and sympathetic suppression prevents the effect of hypothalamic er stress and inflammation to increase ap furthermore both rygb and vsg surgery are associated with a decrease in sympathetic tone in humans which has beensuggested to contribute to the ap-lowering effect of bariatric surgery therefore we measured fasting plasma norepinephrine ne concentrations as an indicator of sympathetic activity.

therefore vsg-induced reductions in hypothalamic er stress may decrease ap by decreasing sympathetic tone.vsg surgery produces shifts in gut microbial populations alterations in gut microbial populations have been suggested to contribute to the benefits produced by bariatric surgery including vsg.

mice underwent sham or vsg surgery at 4 months of age and cecal content samples were collected 2.5 months after surgery.

research articlevertical sleeve gastrectomy reduces blood pressure and hypothalamic endoplasmic reticulum stress in miceanne k. mcgavigan1 zachariah m. henseler23 darline garibay1 scott d. butler1 sisitha jayasinghe1 ruth e. ley23 robin l. davisson14 and bethany p. cummings1abstractbariatric surgery such as vertical sleeve gastrectomy vsg causes remarkable improvements in cardiometabolic health including hypertension remission.

mice fed on a high-fat diet underwent sham or vsg surgery and radiotelemeter implantation.

in an effort to improve our understanding of the mechanisms driving the cardiometabolic benefits of bariatric surgery we have validated a mouse model of vsg  consistent with observations in human patients our murine vsg model exhibits decreased foodintake and body mass and body mass-independent improvements in glucose regulation therefore we used our murine vsg model to develop and validate a mouse model that recapitulates the effect of vsg to reduce ap in humans.

we then used this model to investigate potential mechanisms by which vsg surgery reduces ap.obesity is considered a major risk factor for the development of hypertension.

therefore loss of body mass after bariatric surgery probably contributes to reduced ap.

for example activation of perk results in phosphorylation and inactivation of eukaryotic translation inhibition factor 2a eif2areceived 15 august 2016 accepted 4 january 2017leading to decreased protein synthesis rresearch articledisease models  mechanisms 2017 10 235-243 doi10.1242dmm.027474work in rodent models demonstrates that enhanced er-stress signaling in brain areas such as the hypothalamus increases ap conversely restoration of brain er homeostasis markedly reduces ap yalterations in gut microbial populations have been implicated in the pathogenesis of various cardiometabolic diseases including hypertension t specifically obese and lean phenotypes are transmissible via inoculation of germ-free mice with obese or lean microbiomes t similarly a hypertensive phenotype is transmissible via inoculation of normotensive rats with a hypertensive microbiome furthermore previous work reports that transplantation of gut microbiota derived from rygb-operated mice or humans to gnotobiotic mice produces metabolic improvements compared with control transplants therefore shifts in the gut microbiota may contribute to the cardiometabolic benefits of bariatric surgery.

