we obtained the level of 0.006 and0.009 of reads match to 16s ribosomal dna for samples b and c and 0.35 for sample a. moreover in all three samples qpcr quality control assays revealed that the levels of bacterial contaminating dna in virome samples accounted for less than0.2 of the total viral dna extracted a threshold considered acceptable as suggested by .

the remaining reads showed a taxonomy distribution as follows microviridae was the most abundant family identified both in samples b 51 and c 52 while only 7 in sample a. similarly circoviridae were present in a large amount in samples a and b 38 and 44 respectively while only the 8 of the identified viral reads were recognized in sample c. to a lesser extent myoviridae and siphoviridae were present in a similar abundance in samples a and c 17 and 12 14 and 15 respectively while only at a low amount in the sample b 4 and 2 .a separate taxonomic identification of the microbial reads in the three viromes has been performed .

bacterial contaminating dna accounted for less than 0.2 of the total viral dna extracted.extraction of microbial dna for metagenomic analysiswater samples were filtered at 0.2 um by tff and the obtained permeate was centrifuged for 15 min at 9000 g and 4c.

statistically significant differences were determined by an unpaired student's t-test p  0.05.resultstaxonomic description of viral communities using the shotgun metagenomic approachidentification of viral reads in the viromes of the three samples resulted in two different scenarios .

this extremely low level of contamination was reflected after viral genome amplification and shotgun sequencing in values lower than0.2 of abundance of reads associated to ribosomal genes on the total of reads in two out of three viromes analyzed.these values of contamination are comparable and sometimes lower than those measured in viromes already available in public database supplementary table s3        .as reported by other authors viromes harbored a huge amount of phage-encoded bacterial sequences           .

we therefore exclude that this low level of bacterial dna contamination in viromes could have affected the subsequent bioinformatic analysis of viromes.in our samples taxonomy was first associated with the viral reads.

concerning the abundance of args- and mrgs- associated reads abundance of args and mrgs reads on the total amounts of reads  we apparently observed their increase in the three microbiomes from samples a to c and an opposite trend in the three viromes .the increase of args and mrgs-associated reads from samples a to c could be coinciding with the increased industrializationurbanization level of the geographical area where samples were collected.

standard curves were generated by plotting the log10 of the bacterial cell numbers against the corresponding ct values obtained from the amplification of diluted dna.ct values obtained using viral dna the actual concentration of bacterial dna was determined and expressed as a percentage of the total dna previously extracted.

the powerwave xs microplate spectrophotometer at 260 nm biotek and the take3 multi-volume plate biotek were used to quantify 2 ul of the dna solution.metagenomic shotgun sequencing of microbial and viral dnaa genomic library was generated from 3 ug of genomic dna using the truseq dna pcr-free sample preparation kit illumina and the miseq reagent according to the user's guide illumina.

currently when  0.2 of reads match to 16s ribosomal dna a non-viral marker of bacterial dna the viromes are considered to have high bacterial dna content  .

further studies are necessary in order to understand the mechanisms that drive the gene flow between microorganisms and the complex viral populations.conclusionwe have developed an integrated approach suitable for the exploration of microbiomes and viromes for microbial genes with a focus on args and mrgs starting from fresh water river samples.

other notable families identified were chitinophagaceae 18 in sample b neisseriaceae 17 in sample a and lactobacillaceae 12 in sample a. virome of sample c was the richest regarding bacteria with 294 different bacterial families represented followed by viromes of samples a and b showing 290 and 236 bacterial families respectively.functional characterization of virome datametabolism-related reads in viromes showed a range of abundance between 15 and 37 whereas information storage and processing-related reads ranged between 20 and 36 .

likewise in this study we observed the same phenomena  in all three samples analyzed thereby confirming that viromes represent a picture of past microbial populations.to understand whether the microbial genes associated with the viromes were accessible to members of the aquatic microbiota we carried out a set of mesocosms focusing our attention on the mobilization of tet genes.

a cscl gradient centrifugation followed by a dnase treatment of concentrated vlps limited under the 0.2 threshold the contamination qpcr evaluated of bacterial dna in viral dna extraction.

finally 2 ul of each dna solution was quantified using the powerwave xs microplate spectrophotometer at 260 nm biotek instruments inc. winooski vt united states and the take3 multi-volume plate biotek instruments inc. winooski vt united states.calculation of bacterial contamination using qpcran aliquot of the purified dna was used as a template in qpcr assays to quantify the amount of contaminating non-viral dna.

