viral infections of both coral hosts and their microbiota can change the compo- sition of viral consortia and lead to the transfer of nutri- ents from one reef compartment to another thus we argue that viral production in corals is likely to function as a 'revolving door' that connects the reef benthos to the adjacent water column.

we anticipate that the high viral infec- tion activity in coral reef ecosystems is likely to shape the structure and diversity of the microbial host commu- nity in a similar way to that described in other marine environments81-83.another consequence of high rates of viral infection in reef ecosystems is the potential for viruses to mediate the transfer of genetic material between microorganisms.

to conclude we high- light the interconnection between viral infection in reef hosts and concentrations of nutrients and community diversity in reef sea water.the coral reef ecosystemtropical coral reefs occur in nutrient-poor environ- ments but they still form highly productive and diverse ecosystems1112.

however considerable work remains to assess the extent of virus diversity and function in reef waters as well as their environmental determinants.the virome and coral reef healththe water column compartment viral infection and shallow-water reef ecosystem function.

thus it seems that temperate viruses are highly prevalent in reef ecosystems and similar to their lytic counterparts may have important roles in shaping reef microbial communities.however additional research is needed to fully assess viral life cycle dynamics in coral reef systems across space and time.

each viral infection leads to the production of new viruses and empirical studies have calculated that viral production rates average at 1011 viruses l-1 d-1 in marine ecosystems63727375121127128.sustained viral production in marine systems exerts strong pressures on oceanic life across all trophic levels83.

specifically anthropogenic drivers of viral production such as eutrophication and thermal anomalies increase viral production in coralsviral productionthe release of new virus particles following host cell lysis due to viral infection.eutrophicationan increase of inorganic or organic nutrients for example nitrate phosphate or sewage in a habitat that results in negative ecosystem effects.phage and eukaryotic viruses54.

17 3440-3449 2015.synthesizing previously published works along with newly generated viral metagenomes thismeta-analysis addresses all of the viral families reported in dozens of coral studies contributing to our understanding of the core coral virome.wilson w. h. in studies in viral ecology volume 2. animal host systems ed.

a recent study70 investigated both viral lytic and lysogenic infec- tions across 24 reef viral assemblages and reported a high prevalence of temperate viruses in conditions that support high microbial densities.

statistical model- ling of these reef viromes including the frequency of lysogenic cells as well as the proportion and diversity of lytic and lysogenic viral marker genes revealed a clear switch from viral lytic to lysogenic infections with increased microbial densities70.

this new find- ing challenged the classic view of the 'kill-the-winner'210  april 2017  volume 15reviews model7980 in which lytic viruses typically dominate viral assemblages in conditions with high microbial prolifer- ation box 2. this switch from lytic to lysogenic viral infection has been proposed as a mechanism to stim- ulate reef microbialization in which temperate viruses protect their abundant host cells against infections from lytic viruses70.

drawing on marine virology and coral reef biology research we dis- cuss when and how viral consortia shift on reefs and how this may affect the health and function of coral reef eco- systems.

this review highlights the connection between viral infection in reef hosts and concentrations of nutrients and community diversity in reef sea water60.

we hypothesize that coral reef viruses can have a substantial effect on ecosystem function because nutrients that are released through viral lysis are readily transferred between the reef benthic and water column compartments orange and green respectively as if through a 'revolving door'.

concurrently viral lysis of autotrophic and heterotrophic microbial blooms in the water column results in additional carbon and nitrogen flux which can be transferred to the benthic compartment of reefs and cause further shifts in microbial communities and viral production and increased coral disease and mortality.

