30 760-773shaukat s. angez m. alam m. m. jebbink m. f. deijs m. canuti m. sharif s. de vries m. khurshid a. mahmood t. van der hoek l. and zaidi s. s. 2014 identification and characterization of unrecognized viruses in stool samples of non-polio acute flaccid pa- ralysis children by simplified vidisca.

cmv may increase susceptibility to oppor- tunistic viral fungal or bacterial pathogens by modulation of the immunity of the host 12 however the same virus in turn may also protect from bacterial pathogens such as listeria monocytogenes or yersinia pestis 13-15. further- more humans ingest by nutrition large quantities of plant and eukaryotic animal viruses that passage the gut with preservation of their infectivity but do not infect human cells 16. the role of this large transient fraction of the viral microbiome is largely unknown but these viruses may occasionally trigger an immune response 16.the human virome is only marginally characterizedtherefore it is not surprising that gut virome samples taken from different human individuals yield mostly novel viruses 8 9 17 18 and that only a small minority of viral open reading frames resemble previously studied genes 17. metagenomic data sets are dominated by uncharacterized sequences 60-95 that very likely orig- inate from viral genomes 7. moreover the recent mining of publicly available microbial genomic data for the viral signal revealed a considerable number of novel viral se- quences increasing the number of known viruses by .10- fold 19. hence viral dark matter i.e.

nevertheless only a few methods were evaluated for isolation of virions from clinical samples and most require large volumes of samples which limits the clinical useful- ness of these methods 21 22. these technological short- comings greatly limit our understanding of ecological and evolutionary interference between viruses and their hosts.this study aimed for exploration of the diversity ofmobile genetic information carried by the entirety of viruses that are present in clinical samples using a novel method for their sensitive study.

in previous studies the presence of a large number of novel viruses was suspected 58-61. a major advantage of our novel method for viral purification and enrichment is the high efficacy in elimi- nation of bacterial and human contaminating genomes and the enrichment of virions from small and clinically attainable samples prior to metagenomic analysis 62 63. viruses constitute only a minor fraction 2-5 of the totalamount of nucleic acids that are present in clinical samples as a result of their relatively small genome size which may lead to an underestimation of the viral abundance clinical samples 22 64 65 however the high efficacy of vipep allowed assessment of the viral diversity by using a spe- cific bioinformatics workflow which was established for this study.

in addition to those intended viruses a wide range of other putatively present viruses that resist inactivation by standard procedures were introduced to the sample by diverse biological components 49. to evaluate the presence of unintended viruses in cell cultures 3 different eukaryotic viruses-- cmv influa and adv--were propagated in 3 different cell lines under aseptic conditions respectively.

the low concentra- tion of viruses in clinical samples relative to contaminant genomes requires preanalytic enrichment for efficient metagenomic analysis 20. in contrast to the conserved genomic regions that are available for preanalytic targeted amplification of genes of interest such as the gene that codes for the 16s fragment of the small rrna subunit in bacteria the genomes of viruses are too diverse 21. recently several novel methods have been developed for preanalytic prep- aration of samples before next-generation sequencing anal- ysis.

evaluation of vipep with 3 different eukaryotic and 2 prokaryotic reference viruses revealed consider- able differences in enrichment factors which ranged from 1235 for p100 phage and 130958 for adv respectively.to evaluate whether these differences in viral re-covery may be related to environmental conditions and the environmental resistance of different viruses we spiked cell-free cmv and adv cell culture supernatants into clinical samples with significantly different genomic background osmolarity ph or immune factors and sub- jected these samples to vipep fig.

klymiuk i. kastner m.-t. rieder f. j. j. schneider m. fister s. lion t. kosulin k. laengle j. bergmann m. rattei t. steininger c. viruses comprise an extensive pool of mobile genetic elements in eukaryote cell cultures and human clinical samples.

plos one 6 e28879hall r. j. wang j. todd a. k. bissielo a. b. yen s. strydom h. moore n. e. ren x. huang q. s. carter p. e. and peacey m. 2014 evaluation of rapid and simple techniques for the enrichment of viruses prior to metagenomic virus discovery.

129 223-230fister s. fuchs s. mester p. kilpelainen i. wagner m. and rossmanith p. 2015 the use of ionic liquids for cracking viruses for isolation of nucleic acids.

re- markably significant numbers of cmv read pairs were associated with higher human read pairs p  0.002 which may indicate copurification of virions with sub- cellular particles table 1.the abundance of hits to phage markers was highly variable among the different samples and ranged from 29 to 99 in urinary samples and from 47 to 99 in oropharyngeal samples supplemental fig.

21 1616-1625rasko d. a. webster d. r. sahl j. w. bashir a. boisen n. scheutz f. paxinos e. e. sebra r. chin c. s. iliopoulos d. klammer a. peluso p. lee l. kislyuk a. o. bullard j. kasarskis a. wang s. eid j. rank d. redman j. c. steyert s. r. frimodt-moller j. struve c. petersen a. m. krogfelt k. a. nataro j. p. schadt e. e. and waldorm.

13 83-121barton e. s. white d. w. cathelyn j. s. brett-mcclellan k. a. engle m. diamond m. s. miller v. l. and virgin iv h. w. 2007 herpesvirus latency confers symbiotic protection from bacterial infection.

methods 97 68-73machida u. kami m. fukui t. kazuyama y. kinoshita m. tanaka y. kanda y. ogawa s. honda h. chiba s. mitani k. muto y. osumi k. kimura s. and hirai h. 2000 real-time au- tomated pcr for early diagnosis and monitoring of cytomegalovirus infection after bone marrow transplantation.

43 3049-3053nogusa s. ritz b. w. kassim s. h. jennings s. r. and gardnere.

