for example loss of vdr specifically in the mammary epithelium significantly inhibits pubertal mammary gland development 8. deficiency of vdr in mouse lungs leads to an early onset of copd emphysema associated with chronic inflammation response immune dysregulation and lung destruction 9. vdr activation protects against myocardial ischemiareperfusion injury via reducing oxidative stress and inhibiting cardiomyocyte apoptotic and autophagic pathways 10.vitamin d is associated with the severity of intestinal injury of colitis models 11. vitamin d deficiency is common in ibd patients 12. for patient with crohn's disease vitamin d deficiency has been recognized as an environmental risk factor since the early 80s 13.patients with vitamin d deficiency displayed increased uc clinical disease severity and a lower quality of life qol in a cohort of patients with ibd 14 15. after supplementation with recommended doses of vitamin d and reserving saturation of 125oh d3 the serumconcentration of vitamin d and health related quality of life can be improved 16 17.however more recently a study showed that daily supplementation with 1000 iu of vitamin d3 1200 mg of calcium or both did not significantly reduce the risk of recurrence of colorectal adenomas after its removal over a period of 3 to 5 years 18.a variety of factors may reduce vitamin d absorption including limited exposure to sunlight dark skin obesity and problems with absorption or the ability to convert vitamin d to its active form.

we will also discuss the limits and future direction in scientific understanding of probiotics vitamin dvdr and host responses.keywordsautophagy bacteria colon cancer colitis lactic acid bacteria ibd inflammation probiotics nf-kb vitamin d vdrintroductionprobiotics are ingestible nonpathogenic living microorganisms and when consumed in adequate amounts as food components confer some beneficial effects to the host by inhibiting or treating diseases according to the world health organization 1. recent laboratory studies and clinical trials have shown the potential health benefits of probiotics in treating various human diseases2-4.

the active form of vitamin d exerts an important role in modulating both mucosal immunity and normal growth of epithelial cells 5. vdr as a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily mediates the biological activity of 125oh2d3 6. the vitamin d-vdr endocrine system has been identified in nearly all nucleated cells 7. vdr can regulate a variety of illnesses in intestine kidney bone skin heart and various other organs.

given the various immune-modulatory properties of vitamin d vitamin d deficiency increases the risk of various gastrointestinal diseases it is likely that deficient levels lead to intestinal barrier dysfunction 11 mucosal damage 19 and susceptibility to infectious agents thus affecting the development and maintenance of gut homeostasis 20.

as probiotics may induce antimicrobial substance production compete for limiting resources prevent invasion and protect the host against toxins thus altering the profile and functions of the gutmicrobiome 92 and 3 the activity of genotoxin inhibition involving in chronic inflammation inhibition dna repair mutagenic substance inactivation reducing the levels of carcinogenic compounds and binding to certain mycotoxins and cyanobacterialtoxins 93 94.probiotic modulate vitamin d and vdrcollected data from recent studies demonstrate that probiotic treatment could increase vitamin d vdr expression and vdr activity in the host.

although it has long been known that the gastrointestinal tract plays an active role in the absorption of vitamin d these findings showed an orally delivered probiotic strain improves vitamin d level.a study using il10-- colitis mouse model has demonstrated an association between probiotic vsl3 and the nuclear receptor signaling pathway 2. pretreatment with the probiotic vsl3 can increase vdr and angiostatin expression decrease alkaline phosphatase to attenuate microscopic damage and prevent development of carcinoma in a rat model of cancer 96. mencarelli et al 97 also tested the therapeutic potential of vsl3 intervention in protecting against progress of steatohepatitis and atherosclerosis.

2015 148179-183. pubmed 25603468bouillon r carmeliet g verlinden l van etten e verstuyf a luderer hf lieben l mathieu c demay m. vitamin d and human health lessons from vitamin d receptor null mice.

2017  249 876-887. doi10.21740929867323666161202150008.vitamin dvdr probiotics and gastrointestinal diseasesmei shang12 and jun sun11department of medicine university of illinois at chicago chicago il usa2department of parasitology zhongshan school of medicine sun yat-sen university guangzhou people's republic of chinaabstractvitamin d is an important factor in regulating inflammation immune responses and carcinoma inhibition via action of its receptor vitamin d receptor vdr.

recent studies have demonstrated the role of vitamin dvdr in regulating host-bacterial interactions.

in the current review we will discuss the recent progress on the roles of vitamin dvdr in gut microbiome and inflammation.

we will summarize evidence of probiotics in modulating vitamin dvdr and balancing gut microbiota in health and gastrointestinal diseases.

in this review we focus on the recent progress on the mechanisms of probiotics actions that modulate vitamin d and vdr in inflammatory response and development of human diseases such as inflammatory bowel diseases ibd colon cancer gastritis and liver diseases.

we summarize etiologic and clinical evidence of probiotic in modulating vitamin dvdr and balancing gut microbiota.

the limits and future direction in studying probiotics and vitamin dvdr are also discussed.address correspondence to jun sun phd aga fellow associate professor division of gastroenterology and hepatology department of medicine university of illinois at chicago 840 s wood street room 704 csb chicago il 60612 telshang and sunpage 2vitamin d and vdrvitamin d is converted to the dihydroxylated derivative 125-dihydroxyvitamin d3 125oh2d3 by successive hydroxylations in the liver and kidney.

125oh2d3 treatment shifts the composition of the gut bacterialshang and sunpage 3microflora and protects against experimental ibd 27. vitamin d and vdr regulate the innate immune response to the microbiome.

