no sig- nificant differences were found between the phylogenetic distribution of sequences recovered from the immediately-frozen and vmg ii stored dental plaque p  0.07812 permutational manova a. in com- parison the distribution of sequences in the rnaprotect bacteria stored plaque differed significantly from the immediately-frozen dental plaque p  0.007812 permutational manova b. of the two rt storage conditions tested only vmg ii was able to preserve a similar phylo- genetic makeup to the immediately-frozen dental plaque.discussionwe have identified vmg ii as a suitable medium for the storage of oral microbiome samples which are to be assessed with ngs in field-type conditions.

these sequences were taxonomically assigned using the greengenes reference da- taset version gg138 following operational taxonomic unit otu classification with uclust qiime version 1.8.0. relative abundances were calculated using normalised se- quence data to account for varying sequence depth between samples phyloseq version 1.10.0.frozen vmg ii and rnaprotect bacteria.phylumimmediately-frozen vmg ii  rnaprotect bacteria alpha a diversitywe assessed whether the overall bacterial diversity differed between dental plaque samples frozen immediately to those stored at rt in ei- ther vmg ii or rnaprotect bacteria.

dental plaque stored in vmg ii was most similar to immediately-frozen material with only one of the 324 bacterial species being differentially abundant neisseria p  0.001. in comparison dental plaque stored in rnaprotect bacteria had 24 differentially abundant species compared with the immediately-frozen samples and a significantly different phylogenetic structure p  0.01. we have identified vmg ii as a new transport medium for room temperature storage of dental plaque samples being subject to next-generation sequencing that stabilises oral microbial dna makeup.introductionunderstanding of the role of the oral microbiome in health and disease is being transformed by next-generation sequencing ngs.

whilst multiple dna preservatives are available the two we investigated for rt preservation of oral microbial dna were the viability preserving microbiostatic medium vmg ii because it is designed for oral samples and rnaprotectr bacteria reagent qiagen as rna preservatives have been tested multiple times on gut micro- biome samples   and used in a large oral microbiome cohort study  but not as yet tested for preservation of oral biofilm samples.

whilst this method would have resulted in some variability in the plaque picked up on each of the three swabs this would have been random between individuals with respect to storage condition allocation of the swab.each of the triplicate swab samples taken per individual was stored under a different conditionsample 1swab 1 was frozen immediately at -20 degc neat.sample 2swab 2 was stored in vmg ii at rt for two weeks and then frozen at -20 degc.sample 3swab 3 was stored in rnaprotect bacteria at rt for two weeks and then frozen at -20 degc.an alternative method to using three swabs to collect the whole mouth plaque sample would be to take one swab dispense the plaque into a liquid and aliquot the liquid to the different storage conditions.

vmg ii transport medium stabilises oral microbiome samples for next- generation sequencingchristina j. adler abbe white michelle bockmann gina v. browne grant townsendtoby hughesa institute of dental research faculty of dentistry the university of sydney new south wales 2145 australiab the westmead millennium institute for medical research the university of sydney new south wales 2145 australiac adelaide dental school the university of adelaide south australia 5005 australiad westmead centre for oral health new south wales 2145 australiaa r t i c l e i n f o keywordsoral microbiome storagenext-generation sequencing vmg iia b s t r a c t next-generation sequencing is providing insights into the critical role of the oral microbiome in dental diseases.

furthermore our data does not reveal whether vmg ii media accurately preserves other microbes such as fungi and archaea.conclusionswe found the vmg ii medium to be a safe and cost effective solution to the issue of stabilising microbial dna at rt for dental plaque sam- ples.

however it has yet to be examined if vmg ii is a suitable storage media for dental plaque samples intended for ngs.

storage of dental plaque in vmg ii at rt for a period of two weeks preserved the samples original bacterial diversity abun- dance of otus and phylogenetic distribution of sequences.

stabilisation of dental plaque in vmg ii provides a solution to the issue of rt storage for periods of up to two weeks for samples intended for ngs.

this application will enable sampling of oral microbiome from remote populations which are currently under-re- presented in oral health research.the vmg ii medium has advantages in terms of stabilisation ability and cost over currently available rt storage methods for oral micro- biome samples.

vmg ii has not previously been assessed for suitability to store microbiome samples intended for deep sequencing.

whilst originally intended for cul- turing plaque samples stored in vmg ii have been used for dna iso- lation of periodontal pathogens .

rnaprotect bacteria can be made into a semi-solid gel with the addition of agarose at 0.5 although it is unknown what impact this may have on the ability of rnaprotect bacteria to preserve nucleic acids.to the best of our knowledge the suitability of either vmg ii orrnaprotect bacteria with agaragarose for rt stabilisation of dna from oral microbiome samples has yet to be assessed using ngs.

the wilcoxon signed ranks test was calculated in r version 3.1.2.the otus present in dental plaque samples frozen immediately to those stored at rt in vmg ii and rnaprotect bacteria media.

