despite large differences in moisture content which correlate well with bss scores spearman r0.52 p value0.001 c water activity of freshfigure 1 a moisture sorption isotherm curve for faeces spearman r0.12 p value 0.05. b correlation between water activity and bristol stool scale bss scores spearman r0.03 p value0.05.

 postscript letterswater activity does not shape the microbiota in the human colonwe recently reported an association between stool consistency as measured by the bristol stool scale bss and major markers of the gut ecosystem including microbial richness enterotypes and bac- terial growth rates in 53 healthy women.

while the impact of passage rate on ecosystem composition has recently been shown to partially account for bss-associated microbiota variation the potential correlation with water avail- ability remains unexplored.water activity aw is a dimensionless variable that reflects the availability of water in a system aw pure water1.

the relation between water activity and mois- ture content is non-linear and product specific and temperature specific but has yet to be determined for faeces.

water activity is essential for enzymatic reac- tions thus making it a key factor of select- ive pressure on microbial growth.

its relevance in a driving force for gut ecosys- tem compositional variation is currently unclear.here we measure water activity of 62 fresh faecal samples with different consist- encies using a resistive electrolytic hygrometer labmaster novasina lachen switzerland accuracy 0.003 aw technical variability 0.002 aw which measures relative air humidity through the resistance of an electrolyte at constant temperature 37degc.

we show that water activity in faeces correlates with neither moisture content spearman r0.12 p value 0.05 a nor bss scores spearman r0.03 p value 0.05 faecal samples displays little variation .

the values recorded are consist- ently higher than 0.97 aw .given the relevance of water activity in the context of food spoilage there is ample availability of data regarding minimal aw values required to allow thegrowth of specific micro-organisms from these reports it is clear that aw above 0.97 provide sufficient unbound water to support the growth of most bacteria.as aw values of fresh faecal samples can be expected not to exceed those in the colon environment our results indicate thatb.

gut october 2017 vol 66 no 101865 postscriptwater activity variation in the colon is too limited to exert any selective pressure on the residing bacteria.

the observed effects of stool consistency on colon microbiota composition are thus unlikely to be a result of water activity variation but rather represent transit time differences or other currently unassessed variables.doris vandeputte123 gwen falony12 kevin d'hoe123 sara vieira-silva12 jeroen raes121department of microbiology and immunology ku leuven--university of leuven rega institute leuven belgium2vib center for microbiology leuven belgium3research group of microbiology department of bioengineering sciences vrije universiteit brussel brussels belgiumcorrespondence to jeroen raes department of microbiology and immunology ku leuven--campus gasthuisberg rega institute herestraat 49--box 1030 leuven b-3000 belgium acknowledgements we thank all study participants for their effort and professor dr kristin verbeke for the lyophilisator used for moisture content measurements.contributors conception and design of the study dv gf data collection dv gf kd data preparation and analysis dv and writing and critical revision of the manuscript dv gf sv-s jr. all authors approved the final version for publication.funding dv is funded by the agency for innovation by science and technology iwt.

kd and sv-s are supported by respectively a doctoral and postdoctoral fellowship from research foundation flanders fwo.competing interests none.ethics approval commissie medische ethiek uz leuven.provenance and peer review not commissioned internally peer reviewed.data sharing statement water activity and moisture content data are made available on request to the corresponding author.commercial.

water activity in foods fundamentals and applications.

