In contrast during the same period the United States Department of Agriculture provided the equivalent of 0.001 from livestock and poultry sales in external research funds.The desperate underfunding of veterinary research in the United States is highlighted by the fact that in 2007 0.04 of the United States Department of Agriculture resources was spent on research in agriculturally important animals.Not much is likely to change in the short term because there has been stagnation in agricultural research funding by the United States government over the past few decades and a shift toward private sector funding.Understandably industry-based research will likely focus on applied outcomes however with stagnating funds research that leads to fundamental understandings of processes such as host response to pathogens is likely to be undertaken by fewer research groups.Meeting the need for new antibiotics and reducing the use of current antibiotics requires new lines of research including fundamental research into zoonosis studies on pathogen biology and comparative infection studies of humans and animals.

Proteomics 2010 9 313-326.Hermjakob H. Montecchi-Palazzi L. Bader G. Wojcik J. Salwinski L. Ceol A. Moore S. Orchard S. Sarkans U. von Mering C. Roechert B. Poux S. Jung E. Mersch H. Kersey P. Lappe M. Li Y. Zeng R. Rana D. Nikolski M. Husi H. Brun C. Shanker K. Grant S. G. Sander C. Bork P. Zhu W. Pandey A. Brazma A. Jacq B. Vidal M. Sherman D. Legrain P. Cesareni G. Xenarios I. Eisenberg D. Steipe B. Hogue C. Apweiler R. The HUPO PSI's molecular interaction format-a community standard for the representation of protein interaction data.

S. Choi J. S. Komatsu S. Woo S. H. Proteome analysis of roots of wheat seedlings under aluminum stress.

We have connected research groups across multiple species-oriented proteome communities including those with focus on classic and new model organisms and on microbial proteomes and brought together research communities that have individually worked with specificagricultural species and within environmental biology.- This cross-species connectivity has been a successful action because these research domains share many of the same daily challenges in developing technologies within relatively smalland scattered research domains.

The most important challenges are i a severe lack of funding for fundamental research on nonhuman biology research domains ii a limited access to advanced instrumentation affecting research development in many species and iii the small research groups in nonhuman fields limiting the number of scientists joining HUPO and engaging with the iMOP community.

2004 22 177-183.Deutsch E. W. Overall C. M. Van Eyk J. E. Baker M. S. Paik Y. K. Weintraub S. T. Lane L. Martens L. Vandenbrouck Y. Kusebauch U. Hancock W. S. Hermjakob H. Aebersold R. MoritzR.

Sun Z. Jarnuczak A. Perez- Riverol Y. Ternent T. Campbell D. S. Bernal-Llinares M. Okuda S. Kawano S. Moritz R. L. Carver J. J. Wang M. Ishihama Y. Bandeira N. Hermjakob H. Vizcaino J.

For such studies model organisms will still be essential to achieve insight into the mechanisms of human health and disease.The iMOP initiative was launched in 2011 with an objective to focus on nonhuman proteome research and to bring awareness of the need for integrated multiorganism research within the clinically oriented human proteomics community.The need to establish iMOP was based on the recognition that progress in understanding human biology and health is hampered by progress in proteome research on nonhuman species on which human life and health depend.

We highlight some of the roadblocks that have contributed to a relatively slow progress of proteome research within fields of basic biology and highlight the many ways these fields and proteome research are essential to progress research that supports human life andhealth.

Proteomics 2017 14 109-111.Paik Y. K. Overall C. M. Deutsch E. W. Hancock W. S. Omenn G. S. Progress in the Chromosome-Centric Human Proteome Project as Highlighted in the Annual Special Issue IV.

