randomizedpatients to an animal-based diet high in saturated fat or a plant- based diet for 5 days with a washout period of 6 days.

excess hydrogen production leads to luminal distention however only participants with ibs experience this as pain.51investigators are now looking at the effect of a low-fodmap diet on the microbiome with the aim of potentially individualizing and improving this diet.

investigated the effect of a low-fodmap versus high-fodmap diet on the microbiome and the metabolites it produces using next-generation sequencing techniques.54 in participants randomized to the low- fodmap diet there was a significant reduction in urinary hista- mine levels.

doi10.1111jgh.13462review we are what our bacteria eat the role of bacteria in personalizing nutrition therapy in gastrointestinal conditionsruth harvie russell walmsley and michael schultz on behalf of the new zealand society of gastroenterologylawson health research institute western university london ontario canada and gastroenterology department north shore hospital waitemata district health board auckland and department of medicine dunedin school of medicine dunedin new zealandkey wordsfunctional disorders nafld nutritional therapy therapy.accepted for publication 25 may 2016.correspondencemichael schultz department of medicine dunedin school of medicine po box 56 dunedin 9054 new zealand.email declaration of conflict of interest rh is supported by the dunbar phd scholarship university of otago dunedin school of medicine.abstractthe theme for the 2016 world digestive health day is your diet and gut health.

this close and interactive relationship be- tween diet and the microbiome offers a potential for therapeutic in- tervention through the development of personalized nutrition.

the significant interindividual differences in the microbiome sensitiv- ity to other influences the sometimes temporary nature of the com- position and the lack of sophisticated techniques employed have been barriers to the detection of alterations in the microbiome which have in turn impacted on the ability to develop successful human dietary interventions.1415 however ongoing research should help to further develop our understanding of the relation- ship between diet the microbiome and disease states.some individual foods and nutrients have been studied in greater detail than others the best studied being fiber.

fodmap fermentable oligosaccharide disaccharide mono- saccharide and polyol sibo small intestine bacterial overgrowth.vegetables should be part of a balanced diet.

in new zealand fiber intakes for men 22.1 g 95 ci 21.4-22.8 g and women 17.5 g 95 ci 17.1-17.9 g19 are lower than the recommended 30 gday for men and 25 gday for women.20 if fiber supplements are required consider oatbran or ricebran supplements if the patient has a diet high in wheat.fructose is another foodstuff important in this context.

showed that feeding mice a diet high in saturated fat but not polyunsaturated fat caused a relative increase in the number of normally low-abundance bile acid- tolerant sulfite-reducing bacteria like bilophilia wadsworthia.23the composition of the microbiome also affects the metabolism of unabsorbed protein and carnitine.

in one study a low-fodmap diet caused a reduction in bifidobacterium52 while another study showed that total bacteria numbers were reduced following a low-fodmap diet.53 however both studies looked at selective bacterial species rather than the whole community.

the researchers also found an in- crease in those on a low-fodmap diet of a bacteria adlercreutzia that consume hydrogen.

the authors reiterated that the diet needs further investigation because of potential un- healthy changes it may induce on the microbiome.

used next-generation sequencing techniques to study the composition and abundance of bacteria in children provided a low-fodmap diet.

the baseline composition of the microbiome predicted a response to a low-fodmap diet.

most bile acids are recycled to the liver however some may be metabolized by the microbiome.60 bile acids entering the colon can cause the bloom- ing of pathogenic bacteria such as b. wadsworthia that produce sulfites causing damage to the epithelial layer.23 in this group treatment with a low-fodmap diet is likely to be deleterious as it reduces fermentable carbohydrates that when fermented release short-chain fatty acids that can inhibit the growth of pathogenic bacteria.small intestine bacterial overgrowth sibo is likely another pathomechanism contributing to the development of ibs.61 sibofigure 3 example of a potential decision tree for the treatment of ibs d based on features of the microbiome.is defined as either an excess of bacteria or the presence of colonic bacteria in the small intestine.

