but whether the ocular microbiome exhibits dysbiosis with disease whether ocular microbiome is influenced by the gut microbiome what mediates the cross-talk between the gut and ocular microbiomes these are questions that need to be addressed to understand idiopathic infections of the eye.conclusions evaluating diseases remote from the gut would unfold the mysteries of the microbiome.keywords microbiome dysbiosis diseasebackgroundthe only time we are alone is prior to birth.

whether the ocular microbiome exhibits dysbiosis with disease whether ocular microbiome is influenced by the gut microbiome what mediates the cross-talk between the gut and ocu- lar microbiomes these are questions that need to be addressed to understand idiopathic infections of the eye.

the creative commons public domain dedication waiver   applies to the data made available in this article unless otherwise stated.how is it important and what is the role of genes associ- ated with the microbiome which according to conserva- tive estimates is 200-300 times more than the total genes in the human body these are few of the questions that need to be answered.main textdysbiosis and diseasestill the 1990s it has been a mystery as to whether the microbesgenes in the gut microbiome have any impact on human health other than the canonical role of the gut bacteria to break down food remnants modulate the immune system promote fat storage biosynthesis of vitamins and amino acids metabolism of drugs etc.

aberra- tions from the normal core microbiome is referred to as dysbiosis meaning imbalance in the microbiome and has been implicated in auto-immune diseases like diabe- tes rheumatoid arthritis muscular dystrophy multiple sclerosis and fibromyalgia in inflammatory diseases like obesity neonatal necrotizing enterocolitis inflammatory bowel disease and vaginosis in some cancers and mental disorders  .

studied the microbiome of the healthy cornea and conjunctiva of four individuals and identified a core microbiome of 12 genera which included commensal environmental and opportunistic pathogenic bacteria.

research directed on the above lines would help to estab- lish whether the gut microbiome influences ocular sur- face disease directly or indirectly by altering the ocular microbiome and probably also help to identify the causa- tive organism.conclusionswhat seems to be amiss in these studies is an over emphasis on establishing core microbiomes rather than trying to ascertain the reasons for dysbiosis and meth- ods to overcome dysbiosis.

shivaji gut pathog 2017 913doi 10.1186s13099-017-0163-3gut pathogenswe are not alone a case for the human microbiome in extra intestinal diseasess.

shivajiabstractbackground dysbiosis in the gut microbiome has been implicated in auto-immune diseases in inflammatory dis- eases in some cancers and mental disorders.

gut microbiome studies have indicated that christensenella minuta controls obesity in mice faecalibacterium prausnitzii protects mice against intestinal inflammation and akkermansia muciniphila reverses obesity and insulin resistance by secreting endocannabinoids.

such experiments provide the link between the gut microbiome and human health but implicating dysbiosis with extra-intestinal diseases like arthritis muscular dystrophy vaginosis fibromyalgia some cancers and mental disorders appears to be more challenging.

the relevance of gut microbiome to the eye appears to be very remote.but considering that the eye is the site of inflammatory diseases like uveitis scleritis mooren's corneal ulcer etc.

the ocular surface microbiome may also be responsible for eye diseases in man but such studies are lacking.

microbiome of the healthy cornea and conjunctiva have been iden- tified.

this enormous community of microorganisms was termed the microbiome by lederberg and mccray  and was defined as a multi-species community of microorganisms bacteria fungi and viruses that differs from niche to niche in population density and community composition.

for instance the microbiome of the gut is different from that on the skin on the scalp inside the nostrils mouthcorrespondence prof. brien holden eye research centre prof d balasubramanian chairof research l v prasad eye institute road no 2 banjara hills hyderabad telangana 500 034 indiaarmpits oesophagus stomach small intestine vagina etc.

