a total of 101 bats including 12 species were sampled and identified pallid bat antrozous pallidus townsend's big-eared bat corynorhinus townsendii big brown bat eptesicus fuscus silver-haired bat lasionycteris noctiva- gans california myotis myotis californicus western small-footed myotis myotis ciliolabrum long-eared myotis myotis evotis fringed myotis myotis thysanodes cave myotis myotis velifer long-legged bat myotis volans western canyon bat parastrellus hesperus and brazilian free-tailed bat tadarida brasil- iensis.isolation of actinobacteria.

environmental microbiologywestern bats as a reservoir of novel streptomyces species with antifungal activitya nicole a. caimib diana e. northupb ernest w. valdezcdebbie c. buecherd christopher a. dunlape david p. labedaf shiloh lueschowe andrea porras-alfaroadepartment of biological sciences western illinois university macomb illinois usaa department of biology university of new mexico albuquerque new mexico usab u.s. geological survey fort collins science center fort collins colorado and department of biology university of new mexico albuquerque new mexico usac buecher biological consulting tucson arizona usad crop bioprotection research unit u.s. department of agriculture peoria illinois usae mycotoxin prevention and applied microbiology research unit u.s. department of agriculture peoria illinois usafabstract at least two-thirds of commercial antibiotics today are derived from acti- nobacteria more specifically from the genus streptomyces.

dna from pure cultures was extracted using the mobio ultraclean microbial dna isolation kit mobio carlsbad ca according to the manufacturer's protocol with the exception of using colonies from solid media and substituting 1.5 min of bead beating attable 2 description of actinobacteria inhibiting pseudogymnoascus destructansabased on mlsa distance analysis .bpara grand canyon-parashant national monument elma el malpais national monument blm bureau of land management caves 45 and 55 fs fort stanton-snowy river cave national conservation area cave carlsbad cavern national park.cinhibition activity was scored as low 1 to 15 mm medium 16 to 30 mm or high 31 to 45 mm.medium speed for a vortexing step.

this research demonstrates that bats and caves may serve as a rich reservoir for novel streptomyces species with antimicrobial bioactive compounds.keywords actinobacteria bats caves pseudogymnoascus streptomyces white-nose syndromeresently 90 of antibiotics are derived from microorganisms within the phylum actinobacteria .

this study represents an additional effort to characterize culturable novel actinobacteria with antifungal properties that may servetable 1 number of bacterial isolates for each cave systemacave carlsbad cavern national park para grand canyon-parashant national monument fs fort stanton- snowy river cave national conservation area elma el malpais national monument blm bureau of land management caves 45 and 55.as an alternative preventative measures or treatment for bats infected with wns and other mycotic diseases.materials and methodsbat sampling.

in this study we reported 15 new putative species using multilocus analysis.the majority of the isolates with antifungal properties in this study belong to the genus streptomyces.

we sampled bats on the surface and from caves posthibernation at the el malpais conservation area grand canyon-parashant national monument bureau of land management blm caves 45 and 55 fort stanton-snowy river cave national conservation area and carlsbad caverns national park across new mexico and arizona fig.

2014. taxonomic evalua- tion of streptomyces albus and related species using multilocus se- quence analysis and proposals to emend the description of streptomyces albus and describe streptomyces pathocidini sp.

it is noteworthy that sm254 was previously described as streptomyces albus and in the present study based on multi- locus phylogenetic analysis utilizing gene locus sequence data extracted from the sm254 this strain actually is a representative streptomyces albidoflavus .discussionfungal and bacterial surveys in caves have shown that microbial diversity in caves and bats is high and may have antagonistic properties against pathogens  .

here we study the diversity of naturally occur- ring actinobacteria associated with bats in new mexico and arizona and determine their antifungal activities against an emergent fungal pathogen in bats pseudogymno- ascus destructans the causative agent of white-nose syndrome wns.white-nose syndrome is an invasive fungal disease that is currently threatening numerous bat species across the united states and canada.

the high abundance of novel species previously described from caves    and the present report of 15 putative novel species with antifungal activity from bats caught in western u.s. caves illustrate the potential of caves as a valuable resource for the discovery of novel antimicrobials.

sampling of these cave and surface sites was performed during the spring and summer months march to august from 2013 to 2015. bats were caught using mist nets or were hand plucked from cave walls  according to approved protocols under the following collection permits 2014 arizona and new mexico game and fish department scientific collecting permit sp670210 sci3423 and sci3350 national park service scientific collect- ing permit cave-2014-sci-0012 elma-2013-sci-0005 elma-2014-sci-0001 and para-2012-sci-0003usgs fort collins science center standard operating procedure sop 2013-01 and an institutional animal care and use committee iacuc permit from the university of new mexico protocol 12- 100835-mcc and from the national park service protocol imr-elma.para-northup-bat-2013.a2.species sex reproductive conditions and other metrics were recorded .

the taxonomy of streptomyces species is particularly challenging due to the high number of species and the limited resolution of the 16s rrna gene for species circumscription .

thirty-six actinobacteria inhibited or stopped the growth of p. destructans with 32 88.9 actinobacteria belonging to the genus streptomyces.

cave sys- tems in which actinobacteria are ubiquitous and abundant represent new opportu- nities for the discovery of novel bacterial species and the study of their interactions with emergent pathogens.

