an understanding of this complex ecological community is import- ant as it affects our patients and manipu- lation of the gut microbiome has the potential to be used in the treatment of childhood diseases in the future.the human microbiome an organ in its own rightthe human microbiome is composed of communities of bacteria and viruses and fungi that have a greater complexity than the human genome itself.

 research in practicewhat is the microbiomeprotima amon ian sandersoncentre for immunobiology blizard institute london ukcorrespondence todr protima amon centre for immunobiology blizard institute 4 newark street london e1 2at uk received 19 september 2016revised 23 january 2017accepted 24 january 2017 published online first28 february 2017introductionthere has been an explosion in our understanding of the human microbiome the genome of all our microbes in the recent years.

the human microbiome has an estimated 100 trillion microbes the bulk of which live in our gut.

large-scale metagenomic projects com- munity and environmental genomics such as the european metagenomics of the human intestinal tract and the human microbiome project have reported 3.3 million unique protein- encoding genes as compared with the entire human genome which has around 23 000 genes.

these studies have described the beneficial functions of the normal gut microbiota on health down towell as an influence on human behaviour making it an essential organ of the body without which we would not function correctly .microbiome compositionunlike the host genome which is rela- tively constant the microbiome is dynamic and changes with early develop- ment environmental factors such as diet and use of antibiotics and especially in response to disease.the most dramatic changes in composition occur in infancy and early childhood.

the intestinal microbiome of an infant is affected by gestational age full term or premature mode of delivery vaginal birth or caesar- ean section type of feed breast milk or formula feeds maternal nutritional status overweight or undernourished and use of antibiotics.

elucidating the microbiome composition in healthy individuals is important to understanding what consequences changes in micro- biome composition may have to human health and disease susceptibilities.other microbes also live in the gut including viruses fungi and archaea.

however research on them has been small compared with that on bacteria.the human microbiome and diseasethe relationship between changes inthegenetic level.

the following section highlights some258amon p sanderson i. arch dis child educ pract ed 2017102258-261. doi10.1136archdischild-2016-311643 research in practice figure 1 the human microbiome plays an important role in control of vital homeostatic mechanisms in the body.

the concept that altered microbiome composition influences childhood allergic disease sus- ceptibility is further supported by data from epi- demiological studies that report higher prevalence of atopic diseases in infants delivered by caesarean sec- tions formula fed infants and those exposed to antibiotics.type 1 diabetes--the gut microbiota is involved in regulation of the metabolic-immune axis.

several studies have described an altered gut microbiota in children with asd compared with developmentally normal chil- dren.however more work is needed to establish if this is important in the pathogenesis of the condition.future potential of microbiota manipulation for the treatment of diseasemanipulation of the microbiota as a therapeutic tool is a rapidly advancing field in microbiome research.

plos biology 20075 e177.meropol sb edwards a. development of the infant intestinal microbiome a bird's eye view of a complex process.

understanding the role of gut microbiome in metabolic disease risk.

changes in the intestinal microbiome and alcoholic and nonalcoholic liver diseases causes or effects 20161501745-1755.e3.lynch sv.

the lung microbiome and airway disease.

