environmental microbiology 2017 198 2926-2934doi10.11111462-2920.13787opinionwhat happened to koch's postulates in diarrhoeashamima sultana1 shafiqul a. sarker1 and harald bru ssow21clinical sciences department international center for diarrhoeal disease research dhaka bangladesh.2department of gut ecology host-microbe interaction group nestle' research center lausanne switzerland.summaryin 1890 robert koch has formulated postulates describing what criteria a parasite has to fulfil to qualify as an aetiological agent for an infectious disease.

finally the best way to establish causality is prevention of the disease with a specific vaccine.in 1969 r. p. hanson declared in a speech to the wild- life disease association that 'koch is dead' hanson 1988. his main argument was that bringing the host and the parasite together is not enough to cause disease.

for the transition from infection into disease further conditions must be fulfilled the ys and zs of pettenkofer's equation need to be solved.diarrhoea aetiology in bangladesh and the question of koch's postulatesafter these more general considerations it is instructive to analyse data on diarrhoea aetiology from the international centre for diarrhoeal disease research icddrb in dhaka bangladesh with respect to koch's postulates.

koch's hypothesis '1 pathogen 1 1 host 5 1 disease' is there- fore better formulated as 'x pathogens 1 y local milieu 1 z individual host susceptibility 5 disease'.the evolution of koch's postulates over timefrom henle and koch to pettenkoferkoch's postulates represent now for more than hundred years a cornerstone of microbiology and medicine.received 28 april 2017 accepted 28 april 2017. for correspon- dence.

while his arguments do not necessarily speak against koch's postulates he drew attention to the fact that many more factors influence disease occurrence and thus com- plicate an easy cause-effect relationship between pathogen and disease.evans 1976 was less radical and only revisited koch's postulates.

slow viral infections of the brain with extremely long incubation periods and the induc- tion of cancer by viruses further complicated the proof for connections between viruses and unconventional infec- tious diseases.unusual pathogens like prions follow koch's postulatesome of the slow viral infections of the central nervous system were attributed to persistent infections with abnor- mal measles viruses 'sspe' but neurological disease like kuru and creutzfeldt-jacob disease contained exotic infectious agents that became later known as prion 'pro- tein only' diseases prusiner 2013. these diseases were transmissible but sometimes also occurred spontaneously by genetic mutation.

sequence detection should predate disease and decrease with disease resolution.

their proposal comprised 1 microbiome sequencing of the consortium 2 using computational models to identify necessary and sufficient microbes for the given disease 3 targeted culturing and 4 testing these isolates and consortia in a relevant disease model.

infectious disease causation is now considered in a sys- tems biology context particularly in cases when evidence has accumulated that commensal bacteria or synergy between low-virulence bacteria may influence disease outcome.microbiota.

in his 1890 speech at the 10th medical congress in berlin koch 1891 his first rule states personal translation thatfirst the parasite must be encountered in every case of the specified disease in parallel with the pathology and the clinical course of the disease.second this agent should not occur as an acciden- tal or non-pathogenic saprophyte in another disease.third the agent has to be isolated from the patient and should after further passages in pure culture again cause this disease.koch's postulates have since been criticized by nearly every new generation of scientists but koch had already realized that his rules were only a first approximation.

2013. more generally speaking opportunistic pathogenskoch's postulates in diarrhoea 2929are unable to infect a healthy individual since it needs a certain degree of immunological impairment like in hiv patients or microbiota impairment like in c. difficile infec- tions to induce disease.

when looking to the contempo- rary microbiome research one might even express the wish that a consensus conference formulates an equiva- lent for koch's postulates that need to be fulfilled in orderto associate microbiome changes with health and disease conditions beyond infectious diseases.acknowledgementswe thank shawna mccallin and olga sakwinska for critical reading of the manuscript.referencesahmed t. bhuiyan t.r.

int j artif organs 35 695-699.evans a.s. 1976 causation and disease the henle-koch postulates revisited.

yale j biol med 49 175-195.evans a.s. 1991 causation and disease effect of technol- ogy on postulates of causation.

after an overview of the historical developments of the postulates data on diarrhoea aetiology from bangladesh with respect to koch's postulates were analysed.

