In one such study women were subjected to mock embryo transfer prior to antibiotic administration and were classified into three groups based on the presence of bacterial colonization on the embryo transfer cath- eter tip at both mock and actual embryo transfer Group 1 were negative for bacterial culture at both procedures Group 2 tested posi- tive for bacterial presence on catheter tip at mock embryo transfer but following antibiotic administration tested negative and Group 3 tested positive for bacteria on the embryo transfer catheter tip both at mock and actual embryo transfer .

Egbase and colleagues first demonstrated this link in a study of 110 women un- dergoing IVF-embryo transfer and intracytoplasmic sperm injection ICSI in which the endocervical swabs at time of embryo transfer and embryo transfer catheter tips were analysed for microbial colo- nization .

Microbes may gain access to the amniotic cavity via several mecha- nisms - by ascending from the vagina and cervix haematogenous transfer through the placenta accidental inoculation and coloniza- tion through invasive procedures or via retrograde transfer from the Fallopian tubes .

Further correlations between bacterial transfer via embryo transfer catheter tip and pregnancy outcomes have been reported by .

In their prospective clinical trial in 91 women an increase in live-birth rate was associated with the recovery of H2O2- producing Lactobacilli from the vagina P  0.01 and the embryo transfer catheter P  0.01 while a reduction in live-birth rate was associated with recovery of Streptococcus viridans from the embryo transfer catheter tip P  0.04 .

In clinics great care is taken to reduce the risk of microbial transfer into the cervix during embryo transfer by cleaning the external os of the cervix with culture medium and by avoiding touching the vaginal walls and ex- ternal cervix with the catheter tip.

After consecutive single embryo transfer of euploid embryos the most distal 5 mm portion of the transfer catheter was placed in a DNA-free tube under sterile conditions.

In addition while prophylactic antibiotics are commonly used as part of IVF-embryo transfer protocols to prevent infections after invasive pelvic procedures their effect on implantation in the setting of IVF-embryo transfer still remains to be determined.

Endometrial implantation of the embryo is the singular most important event that determines the success of IVF-embryo transfer .

Successful embryo transfer hinges upon many factors including the presence of microbial colonization of the upper genital tract .

