the average milk yield was significantly higher in hf compared to ren hf  5366 kg vs ren  3769 p  0.0147. the percentage of milk fat hf  3.52 vs ren  3.37 and protein hf  3.02 vs ren  3.08 content was comparable in the two breeds.this study complied with italian laws on animal experimentation and ethics italian health ministry authorization n. 6282016-pr.samplesquarter milk samples and venous blood were collected from each animal at the following time points dry-off t1 1 day after calving t2 7-10 days after calving t3 and 30 days after calving t4.

interestingly hf seemed to be unable to up-regulate ptx3 during such presumed infection whereas ren significantly up-regulated ptx3 p  0.0001 b.t1 whereas the opposite was observed in suspected imisubclinicalmastitis samples as shown in b. interestingly the cd45krt5 expression ratio was always lower in ren vs hf cows at all times a. during infection in suspected imisubclinical mastitis sam- ples the cd45krt5 ratio was higher in ren vs hf b.discussionautochthonous and lower-yielding dairy cattle breeds are known to possess higher resistance to disease and resilience to intensive farming conditions when compared to high-yielding highly selected dairy breeds such as hf especially concerning udder health and metabolic disorders in the peripartum period  .

cathelicidin was measured by sandwich elisa in colostral and milk quarter samples from 6 holstein friesian hf and 4 rendena ren cows during the dry period t1 and at 1 t2 7-10 t3 and 30 days t4 after calving it is expressed as aod 450. scc was determined by an automated fluorescent microscopic somatic cell counter it is expressed as 103 cellsml.table 2medians and interquartile ranges in parentheses of scc and cathelicidin in milk of the two breeds.moreover ptx3 expression level was significantly lower in suspected imisubclinical mastitis samples from hf compared to ren p  0.0283 b. non-significant ns but consistently highermilkhfrenexpression was seen for il-1r8 in ren at all times when compared tosampling hf.

at the phylum level ren milk was dominated by firmicutes 94 relative abundance while hf milk contained firmicutes 65 proteobacteria 15 actinobacteria 11 and bacteriodetes 6 a. at the genus level ren milk showed the predominance of streptococcus 71 followed by lactobacillus 10 and pediococcus 6 while hf milk was dominated by strep- tococcus 29 followed by lactobacillus 6 corynebacterium and staphylococcus 4 b and c. among streptococci streptococcus thermophilus was the most prevalent 48 in ren milk in comparison with only 2 in hf d and e.the protein profile of colostrum is different in the two breedsfor estimating milk protein profiles at t2 t3 and t4 the same volume of each sample 0.1 ml was subjected to sds-page and densi- tometric analysis.

combining these data with the lower milk production we can conclude that ren cows do not exhibit marked negative energy status in the days immediately after calving.moreover ren cows demonstrated the ability to maintain lowerlevels of the mastitis markers cathelicidin and scc and therefore of mammary tissue inflammation this ability is of significant interest especially in the post-partum period and it appears to be combined with the capability of ren cows to release in colostrum a higher amount of other immune-related proteins such as lysozyme that efficiently pro- tect the mammary gland against pathogen infections.

proin- flammatory cytokines il-1b and tnfa presented lower expression levels in ren milk cells compared to hf at all time points apart from colostrum t2 where ren samples showed higher cytokine gene ex- pression levels tnf p  0.005 a. in suspected imisubclinical mastitis samples proinflammatory cytokines were more expressed in hf than in ren b.in order to investigate the cell types present in milk samples we analyzed the gene expression of cd45 leukocytes and ktr5 epithe- lial cells.

at t1 and t2 hf cows presented a lower percentage of positive bacterial culture results 33.3 and 33.3 respectively when com- pared to ren 40.0 and 41.7 respectively while at t3 and t4 we observed the opposite with a higher percentage of samples with posi- tive bacterial culture in hf 20.8 and 29.2 respectively vs ren 12.5 and 12.5 respectively.

the bohb increased after calving only in hf and the difference with ren reached the maximum at t3 p  0.01. conversely ren showed a higher concentration of plasma creatinine in comparison with hf p  0.05 for the whole period.

cd45 did not present any difference in expression levels between the two breeds except for the dry off period t1 p  0.0037 when hf showed higher levels than ren a and b. krt5 seemed to be slightly up-regulated in ren vs hf milk cells except at dry offbanding pattern at the mw range of caseins b group f could still be observed as well as differences in the shape and therefore in re- lative composition of the four peaks included in this group.mammary innate immune response patterns are different in the two breedsin order to gain a more detailed picture on the differences between the two breeds in terms of innate immune response lysozyme con- centration and gene expression pattern of some key regulators were evaluated in milk.

taken together the results presented here suggest that hf cows seem to develop a greater systemic and local in the mammary gland inflammatory condition compared to the autochthonous ren breed although our findings will require validation on larger animal cohorts to allow for final conclu- sions.cows of both breeds showed the typical variations of in- flammometabolic profile around calving previously described in healthy periparturient dairy cows  .

with respect to hf cows ren cows showed stronger innate immune responses in the mammary gland in terms of proinflammatory cytokines ptx3 and leukocyteepithelial cell ratio shortly after calving.

relative abundance of the milk bacterial phyla a. pie charts summarizing taxonomy at the genus level b hf c ren and at the species level d hf e ren.of globulin total bilirubin and the similar variations of proteins pro- duced by the liver i.e.

the observed hy- pofunctionality of colostrum leukocytes in hf cows had an important confirmation in a previous study in which a dramatic up-regulation of innate immunity parameters could be demonstrated in colostrum of hf following the parenteral injection of a very low interleukin-2 dose .

to this aim we iden- tified a farm meeting these requirements where a balanced number of healthy hf and ren dairy cows were kept under the same environ- mental and farming conditions and we applied a multidisciplinary approach to compare their innate immune response patterns metabolic parameters milk protein profiles and milk microbiota composition.

the study was encouraged by local and regional italian projects for the valorization of autochthonous breeds.materials and methodsanimalswe collected samples from 6 hf and 4 ren cows housed in the same farm in pavia italy under the supervision of expert bovine practi- tioners.

