Furthermore it regulates the bacterial growth and metabolism induces the development of P. acnes colonies and confers resistance to antimicrobial agents and to host inflamma- tory cells resulting in a second mechanism of bacterial resis- tance.67 The P. acnes biofilm is observed more frequently in patients with acne.68 In these patients the secretion of propionic acid by P. acnes led to the formation of keratinocytes with irreg- ular cellular morphologies confirming that P. acnes modulatesWhat is new in the pathophysiology of acne11the differentiation of keratinocytes suggesting that it plays a role in the development of inflammatory acne lesions and in the for- mation of microcomedones.6970Consequently the use of topical antibacterial compounds such as benzoyl peroxide or botanicals which do not induce antibacterial resistance may be a privileged alternative to limit the cutaneous P. acnes biofilm.71ConclusionsIn conclusion the onset of acne involves different factors result- ing in inflammation and the formation of different types of acne lesions.

Other transient microbes such as Staphylococcus aur- eus and Streptococcus pyogenes are known pathogens.30-33In a balanced skin microbiome Staphylococcus epidermidis limits overcolonization and the inflammatory response of the skin by the different P. acnes strains identified through the release of succinic acid a fatty acid fermentation product and suppresses P. acnes-induced IL-6 and TNF-a production by ker- atinocytes.34-38 Conversely P. acnes limits the proliferation ofS.

These data suggest that NO-np can effectively prevent P. acnes-induced inflammation by both clearing the organism and inhibiting microbial stimulation of the innate immune response.60Several sebum free fatty acids FFAs such as linoleic and sapi- enic acid have antibacterial activity through stimulation of antimicrobial peptide AMP production against a broad range of Gram-positive bacteria such as P. acnes.61 Different studies have demonstrated that AMPs are major contributors to cuta- neous innate immunity.6263 Among those human b-defensin hBD-2 is upregulated in keratinocytes during inflammation and then accumulated in the skin.6465 Because of their direct antimicrobial action the secretion of these peptides provides defence against microbes such as P. acnes.61 This has been con- firmed by Choi et al.66 through a study assessing the regional difference of inflammatory acne lesions according to hBD-2 expression.Based on these elements integrating AMPs in the armamen-tarium of current treatments targeting inflammation such as topical retinoids may be considered a future for acne manage- ment.Propionibacterium acnes and the biofilmPropionibacterium acnes is able to create a biofilm made of extra- cellular polysaccharides.

P. acnes activates the innate immunity via the expression of PARs TNF-a and TLRs and the production of INF-c IL-8 IL-12 TNF IL-1 and MMPs by keratinocytes resulting in the hyperkeratinization of the pilosebaceous unit.i Rebalancing the natural microbiome of the skin by restor- ing the natural skin barrier in targeting cytokine receptors ii limiting the proliferation of P. acnes on the skin using topical antibacterials which do not cause resistance and iii regulating the sebum outflow and composition will be the main acne treat- ment challenges in the future.AcknowledgementsThe author acknowledges the writing support of Karl Patrick GoEURritz SMWS-Scientific and Medical Writing Services France.ReferencesMoradi Tuchayi S Makrantonaki E Ganceviciene R Dessinioti C Feld- man SR Zouboulis CC.

Clin Cosmet Investig Dermatol 2015 8 479-483.McDowell A Nagy I Magyari M Barnard E Patrick S. The opportunistic pathogen Propionibacterium acnes insights into typing human disease clonal diversification and CAMP factor evolution.

Its pathophysiology includes hyperseborrhoea abnormal follicular keratinization and Propionibacterium acnes proliferation in the pilosebaceous unit.

Dysbiosis the process leading to a disturbed skin barrier and disequilibrium of the cutaneous microbiome resulting in the proliferation of P. acnes strains is another important process that triggers acne.

P. acnes activates the innate immunity via the expression of protease activated receptors PARs tumour necrosis factor TNF a and toll-like receptors TLRs and the production of interferon INF c interleukins IL-8 IL12 IL-1 TNF and matrix met- alloproteinases MMPs by keratinocytes resulting in the hyperkeratinization of the pilosebaceous unit.

Rebalancing the natural microbiome of the skin by restoring the natural skin barrier limiting the proliferation of P. acnes on the skin by using topical antibacterials which do not cause resistance and regulating quantity and quality of sebum will be the main acne treatment challenges in the future.

This meeting was funded by the Fondation Bioderma France under the aegis of the Fondation de France.IntroductionAcne is a chronic inflammatory disease of the pilosebaceous unit.1 It commonly occurs at puberty but is also observed in adults.2 Its pathophysiology involves three actors hypersebor- rhoea abnormal follicular keratinization and Propionibacterium acnes proliferation in the pilosebaceous unit.

