The width of the ribbons connecting the sample and genus segments indicates the proportion of the corresponding genera.after 12 h. The shifts of Rubritalea Bradyrhizobium and Uncultured Planctomycetaceae were similar in both the infected and non-infected samples.

The microbiota was analyzed by an Illumina MiSeq system and bacterial amounts were quantified by real-time PCR.

The diversity and bacterial amounts in sea cucumber were higher in August than in November.

The effect of experimental Vibrio parahaemolyticus infection on the indigenous microbiota of sea cucumber was analyzed at different temperatures revealing clear alterations of Psychrobacter and Moraxella thus these shifts can be used as indicators for monitoring infection of sea cucumber.

The microbiota profiles were analyzed by Illumina MiSeq based on the 16S rRNA gene and compared among sites and sampling times.

The sampling sites were selected based on areas with maximum production in Korea and the sampling months were chosen based on the season with maximum consumption November and minimum consumption August 16.

The bacterial cells obtained from each sample were diluted in buffered peptone water 10 g of peptone 5 g of sodium chloride 3.5 g of disodium phosphate 1.5 g of pH 7.2 potassium dihydrogen phosphate andExperimental V. parahaemolyticus Infection ModelTo determine the influence of pathogen infection on the indigenous microbiota of sea cucumber during storage or delivery to consumers we artificially infected sea cucumber withV.

The infected cell number was 10 colony-forming unitsg which is the infective dose of V. parahaemolyticus in seafood 17.V.

The microbiota of non-infected sea cucumber under the same conditions was also investigated as a negative control.

The artificial infection experiments were pcoelrlfeocrtmededasinddeuscprliibceadte.aBbaocvteeraianldcesltlosroend tahte-se8a0degcCucbuemfobre DwNerAe extraction.Extraction of Metagenomic DNAThe total metagenomic DNA of each sample was extracted using the phenol DNA extraction method as reported previously 18 19.

