the bar chart to the right shows the distribution of the 27 most abundant subsystem categories.table 2card antibiotic resistance gene results.categoryhitsnotable genes involved in antibiotic resistancedeterminant of sulfonamide resistance1leuodeterminant of fluoroquinolone resistance1mfdantibiotic target protection protein1mfddeterminant of fosfomycin resistance2fosa5 uhptdeterminant of isoniazid resistance1katgantibiotic resistant gene variant or mutant2katg uhptdeterminant of aminoglycoside resistance1kdpedeterminant of beta-lactam resistance1cmy-108antibiotic inactivation enzyme2cmy-108 fosa5protein modulating permeability to antibiotic2mara ramagene altering cell wall charge4arna pmre pmrc pmrfdeterminant of polymyxin resistance4arna pmre pmrc pmrf gene conferring antibiotic resistance via molecular bypass1bacadeterminant of resistance to peptide antibiotics1bacaproteins and two-component regulatory system modulating antibiotic effluxefflux pump complex or subunit conferring antibiotic resistance13adel adel crp mara h-ns kdpe rama cpxa baer baes emrr leuo roba43mdtc roba emra mdth mdtk acrf oqxa mdta oqxb mdtd acrb acrb rosb rosa emrb k. pneumoniae acra acrd mdtm pata macb mexb mdtb tolc acre mdtg mdtl cpxa mdfa yoji msba emrd baes baer norb crp hmrm emrr mara adel adel rama maca h-nsanalysis  of the px01 strain reveals a microorganism that is well suited for opportunistic pathogenicity through a combination of multidrug efflux b-lactamase activity and antibiotic inactivation en- zymes many of which are also associated with clinical strains of both k. pneumoniae and e. coli .

data in briefwhole genome of klebsiella aerogenes px01 isolated from san jacinto river sediment west of baytown texas reveals the presence of multiple antibiotic resistance determinants and mobile genetic elementsrupa iyer brian iken ashish damaniaa center for life sciences technology department of engineering technology university of houston houston tx usab department of tropical medicine-pediatrics baylor college of medicine houston tx usaa b s t r a c t klebsiella aerogenes is a gram-negative bacterium of the family enterobacteriaceae which is widely distributed in water air and soil.

hospital outbreaks due to k. aerogenes is often related to the acquisition of novel antibiotic resistance determinants through mobile genetic elements as well as constitutive b-lactamase overexpression .the genome of klebsiella aerogenes px01 includes a circular bacterial chromosome with a gc content of 65.09 consists of 5224354 bp and a single plasmid of 38598 bp.

here we report the draft genome sequence chromosome and 1 plasmid of k. aerogenes strain px01 compiled at the scaffold level from 97 contigs totaling 5262952 bp.

k. aerogenes px01 was isolated from sediment along the northern face of burnet bay west of baytown texas.

aerogenes px01 genome statistics.assembly statistics and the rapid annotation system technology rast server identified the unknown bacterium as klebsiella aerogenes .

combined the total genome of px01 contains approximately 5265 gene sequences 5123 coding sequences including 41 rrnas and 89 trnas.

secondary sub- systems with over 100 genes identified through rast are principally survival and stress response oriented and include both cell wall and capsule production as well as antibiotic resistance and virulence.

1. subsystem category distribution of major protein coding genes of enterobacter aerogenes strain px01 as annotated by the rast annotation server.

in addition this strain harbors a minimum of 46 prophage related sequences located on the bacterial chromosome suggesting a possible vehicle for lateral transfer to and from this bac- terial strain.conflict of interestthe authors declare no conflict of interest.acknowledgementswhole genome sequencing of enterobacter aerogenes px01 was funded through nist g110008 58106.referencesb.

