although there are many alternative hypotheses that could explain the effects of warm tem- perature and citalopram observed in our studies enhancement of af- ferent thermal signaling provides one clear hypothetical framework that can be tested in future studies.the behavioral effects of whole-body hyperthermia in the presence of a subthreshold dose of citalopram were positively correlated withincreases in body temperature although whole-body hyperthermia and citalopram independently increased body temperature the effects of whole-body hyperthermia and citalopram were additive such that the highest temperatures were observed in rats subjected to both treatments.

these behavioral effects of whole-body hyperthermia and a subthreshold dose of citalopram were positively correlated with increases in body temperature although whole-body hyperthermia and citalopram independently increased body temperature the effects of whole-body hyperthermia and citalopram were additive such that the highest temperatures were observed in rats subjected to combined treatment.

abbreviations cit citalopram 5 mgkg s.c. fst forced swim test pre pre-incubation post post-incubation s.c. sub- cutaneous trec rectal temperature veh vehicle 0.9 saline wbh whole-body heating.antidepressant-like behavioral effects rats received subchronic injec- tions of citalopram or vehicle 5 mgkg s.c. 23 h 5 h and 1 h prior to the onset of the 5-min fst consistent with previously reported injec- tion times and route of administration   that have defined specific effects of ssris on swimming behaviors under these conditions and exposed to acute whole-body heating 37 degc or room temperature 23 degc conditions for 85 min prior to the 5-min fst for an illustration of the experimental timeline see .

at the post-incubation time point citalopram relative to vehicle increased body temperature under both 23 degc and 37 degc conditions and the highest trec was ob- served in rats that both were treated with citalopram and exposed to 37 degc relative to all other conditions.

whole-body hyperthermia and a subthreshold dose of citalopram act synergistically to induce antidepressant-like behavioral responses in adolescent ratsmatthew w. hale jodi l. lukkes kathleen f. dady kyle j. kelly evan d. pauldavid g. smith charles l. raison christopher a. lowrya department of integrative physiology university of colorado boulder boulder co 80309 usab school of psychology and public health la trobe university melbourne vic 3086 australiac department of chemistry and biochemistry university of colorado boulder boulder co 80309 usad human development and family studies school of human ecology university of wisconsin-madison wi 53706 usae department of psychiatry school of medicine and public health university of wisconsin-madison madison wi 53706 usaf center for neuroscience university of colorado boulder boulder co 80309 usag department of physical medicine and rehabilitation university of colorado anschutz medical campus aurora co 80045 usah center for neuroscience university of colorado anschutz medical campus aurora co 80045 usai rocky mountain mental illness research education and clinical center denver co 80220 usaj military and veteran microbiome consortium for research and education mvm-core aurora co 80045 usaa r t i c l e i n f o keywords alternative antidepressant complementaryintegrative health care serotoninwhole-body heatinga b s t r a c t background open and randomized double blind placebo-controlled clinical trials have demonstrated clinical efficacy of infrared whole-body hyperthermia in treatment of major depressive disorder mdd.

demonstration of antidepressant-like behavioral effects of whole-body hyperthermia in preclinical rodent models would provide further support for the clinical use of infrared whole-body hyperthermia for the treatment of mdd and would provide additional opportunities to explore underlying mechanisms.methods adolescent male wistar rats were habituated daily for 7 days to an incubator 23 degc 15 min then exposed 24 h later to an 85-min period of whole-body hyperthermia 37 degc or control conditions 23 degc with or without pretreatment with a subthreshold dose of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram 5 mgkg s.c. 23 h 5 h and 1 h before behavioral testing in a 5-min forced swim test.

rectal temperature was monitored daily and immediately before and after the forced swim test to determine the relationship between body temperature and antidepressant-like behavioral responses.results whole-body hyperthermia and citalopram independently increased body temperature and acted sy- nergistically to induce antidepressant-like behavioral responses as measured by increased swimming and de- creased immobility in the absence of any effect on climbing behaviors in the forced swim test consistent with a serotonergic mechanism of action.conclusions preclinical data support use of infrared whole-body hyperthermia in the treatment of mdd.introductionmajor depressive disorder mdd is predicted to be the second leading cause of overall global disease burden by 2020  .

much of this burden derives from the fact that currentlyavailable pharmacologic interventions suffer from important short- comings including limited efficacy delayed onset of action and sig- nificant side effects that impair quality of life and promote treatment non-adherence andor discontinuation     abbreviations cit citalopram fst forced swim test mdd major depressive disorder pre pre-incubation post post-incubation s.c. subcutaneous tb body temperature trec rectal temperature trpv4 transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily v member 4 veh vehicle 0.9 saline wbh whole-body hyperthermia corresponding author at department of integrative physiology and center for neuroscience 1725 pleasant street clare 114 354 ucb university of colorado boulder boulder co80309-0354 usa.e-mail address c.a.

effects of whole-body heating on emotional behavior may involve activation of warm-sensitive af- ferent signaling pathways including the spinoparabrachial   or spinothalamic pathways  .in this experiment we exposed rats to whole-body hyperthermiaeither with or without treatment with a subthreshold dose of the se- lective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram and monitored body temperature and antidepressant-like behavioral responses in the forced swim test a standard behavioral screen for antidepressants.methods and materialsanimalsas our previous studies showing that whole-body heating activates serotonergic neurons in the midbrain dorsal raphe nucleus were con- ducted using adolescent male rats  we used adoles- cent male rats in the present study.

a subthreshold dose of citalopram was given in order to maintain synaptic concentrations of serotonin released during warm tempera- ture exposure by warm-sensitive serotonergic cutaneous receptors in the periphery  even after placing the rats in 25 degc water for behavioral testing.apparatusacute whole-body heatingexposure to acute whole-body heating 37 degc or room temperature 23 degc control conditions was conducted as previously described  .

in order to determine if exposure to whole-body heating could synergize with a subthreshold dose of citalopram to elicitfig.

thus this was a 2 vehicle citalopram x 2 23 degc 37 degc experimental design n  8 per group n  32.rectal temperature trec was measured daily immediately fol- lowing the 15-min habituation sessions and on the test day im- mediately before and immediately after the 85-min exposure to acute whole-body hyperthermia or control conditions.

one hour following the onset of the 15-min pre-test rats received injections of either vehicle or citalopram and were then returned to their home cages.

the following day 5 h prior to the second exposure to the fst on day 8 rats received the second injection of either vehicle or citalopram and were returned to their home cages.

b mean rectal temperature trec - sem across the seven day habituation procedure in each treatment condition 23 degcveh n  7 day 46- 8 23 degccit n  8 37 degcveh n  7 day 7-8 37 degccit n  8. trec was measured following the weighing procedure.rectal temperature pre- and post-incubationcitalopram treatment and acute whole-body hyperthermia for 85 min both had time-dependent effects to increase trec whole-body hyperthermia x time interaction f128  7.995 p  0.01 e  1.0 citalopram x time interaction f128  16.681 p  0.001 e  1.0a.

