mlst types and snp phylogeny indicated no clustering of the uti or faecal e. coli from patients distinct from the control faecal isolates although there was an overrepresentation of uti isolates belonging to clonal lineages cc73 and cc12.one combination of mutations in fimh n70ss78n was significantly associated to uti while phylogenetic analysis of fimh and fimh identified no signs of distinct adaptation of uti isolates compared to faecal-only isolates not causing uti.in summary the results showed that i healthy women who had never previously had uti carried faecal e. coli which were overall closely related to uti and faecal isolates from uti patients ii uti isolates do not cluster separately from faecal-only isolates based on snp analysis and iii 22 gene families of a genomic island pu- tative t6ss proteins as well as specific metabolism and virulence associated proteins were significantly more common in uti isolates compared to faecal-only isolates and iv evolution of fimh for these isolates was not linked to the clinical source of the isolates apart from the mutation combination n70ss78n which was cor- related to uti isolates of phylogroup b2.

this study is to our knowledge the first to compare the isolates from the faecal flora of healthy controls who have not had uti previously to those of patients with uti based on a large collection of faecal and uti e. coli isolates sampled from the same geographical area.can the faecal flora predict utimlst snp-based phylogeny and accessory genome analyses showed that healthy women who had never had uti carried very si- milar faecal e. coli to uti patients without this causing infection.

the faecal dominance is likely to depend on host immune status faecal flora composition and possibly the gene repertoire of the bacteria.can uti isolates be distinguished from faecal-only isolateswe identified 35 proteins which were overrepresented in the uti isolates compared to the faecal isolates that did not cause infection although uti isolates could not be distinguished from faecal isolates based on snp analysis.the accessory genome analysis identified 19 proteins and three dufs which were correlated to each other and known to be situated on gei i of e. coli nissle 1917 strain indicating that this partial island contributes to fitness or virulence of the uti isolates.

we compared mlst types phylogenetic relationship accessory genome content and fimh type between patient and control faecal isolates as well as between uti and faecal-only isolates respectively.comparison of the accessory genome of uti isolates to faecal isolates revealed 35 gene families which were significantly more prevalent in the uti isolates compared to the faecal isolates although none of these were unique to one of the two groups.

this combination of mutations was in this study significantly more common in the uti isolates compared to the faecal isolates and indicates that fimh aids strong intestinal binding prior to uti development as well as the well-characterised role during adherence to uroepithelial cells.concluding remarksthe key findings of this study were that uti isolates do not cluster distinctly from faecal-only isolates in a phylogeny indicating that uti isolates did not evolve distinctly from commensal e. coli.

the proportion of isolates with fimh was not significantly dif- ferent between uti isolates and faecal isolates which did not cause infection p  0.27.we identified sites with mutations in fimh of uti and faecal isolates and identified the mutation n70s significantly associated to uti .

our results support and elaborate these results on a larger collection of clinical isolates.additionally the results are in line with our recent study of 42 paired faecal and uti isolates from 42 patients from the same collection of isolates which showed minimal adaptation when comparing the uti isolate and the faecal counterpart indicating that the uti isolate is fit in both the gut and urinary tract .

whole-genome comparison of urinary pathogenic escherichia coli and faecal isolates of uti patients and healthy controlskaren leth nielsen marc stegger kristoffer kiil paul a. godfrey michael feldgardenberit lilje paal s. andersen niels frimodt-mollera department of bacteria parasites and fungi statens serum institut copenhagen denmarkb department of clinical microbiology hvidovre hospital hvidovre denmarkc genome sequencing and analysis programbroad institute of harvard and massachusetts institute of technology cambridge ma usad veterinary disease biology university of copenhagen copenhagen denmarke department of clinical microbiology rigshospitalet copenhagen denmarka r t i c l e i n f o keywordswgs ngsnext generation sequencing urinary tract infection faecal floramicrobiota gut environment virulence fimbria genomes polymorphism snpsmutations phylogeny evolution adaptiona b s t r a c t the faecal flora is a common reservoir for urinary tract infection uti and escherichia coli e. coli is frequently found in this reservoir without causing extraintestinal infection.

using phylogenetic analyses and detailed investigations of genetic content we aimed at i characterising whether uti and faecal isolates can be distinguished at the genomic level and ii comparing the faecal e. coli of uti patients with those of controls in order to de- scribe whether the faecal e. coli of patients could predict uti.methodsstudy participantsparticipants and samples in this study have previously been de- scribed in detail .

faecal isolates constitute control isolates and faecal-only isolates of patients.18 uti isolates 38 and 18 faecal isolates 18 p  0.01.a phylogeny based on the nucleotide sequences of fimh  il- lustrated that i uti and faecal isolates which did not cause infection did not cluster separately ii some parts of the tree clustered with respect to phylogroups e.g.

this indicates that specific factors of metabolism possibly aid to a higher upec fitness in the urinary tract compared to faecal isolates which did not cause infection underlining the importance of in- vestigating broadly when studying uti correlated factors and not merely investigating known and uti relevant virulence genes.studied faecal and urinary e. coli from four pa- tients and concluded that upec appear to be capable of existing in both the faecal and urinary environment without a fitness cost.

these utilities also contribute to uti virulence indicating that t6ss could play a role in uti development.three putative proteins of t6ss were identified in the accessory genome faecal-only comparison with uti isolates indicating that this could be a new and previously unidentified predictor for uti.

the open reading frames received mid to low scores in prodigal andtable 1gene products with significant differences in proportions between faecal-only and uti isolates.italic and grey proteins encoded on genomic island i of e. coli nissle 1917.alocus tag and nt position based on cft073 genbank accession ae14075 with the following exceptions 22-24 umn026 cu928163 26  31 uti89 cp000243 28 nissle 1917 cp007799 27  36-38 apec078 cp004009.bq-value p-value after adjusting for multiple testing.cor odds ratio or  1 overrepresented in uti isolates or  1 overrepresented in faecal isolates.dprop proportion of uti and faecal-only isolates respectively.

we investigated these e. coli reservoirs by whole-genome sequencing a large collection of e. coli from healthy controls faecal who had never previously had uti and from uti patients faecal and urinary sampled from the same geographical area.

combined these findings illustrate that faecal and uti isolates as well as faecal-only and faecal-uti isolates are closely related and can only be distinguished if at all by their ac- cessory genome.introductionescherichia coli is the most common cause of urinary tract infection uti with the faecal flora of the patient as the primary source of the infecting isolate  .

