to what extent the observed in vivo activity of ipa is due to its direct antibacterial activity and its host immune-modulatory function remains to be determined.taken together we screened a library of 1000 fragment-like molecules for whole- cell activity against m. tuberculosis and found that one unoptimized fragment hit ipa displayed in vivo tolerability and exposure as well as activity in a mouse model of tuberculosis.

bactericidal activity indicates activity against m. tuberculosis.negatu et al.antimicrobial agents and chemotherapym.

abscessus17aureus10fig 3 activity spectrum of 29 fragment hits with anti-m. tuberculosis activity.

the absolute number of log cfu per milliliter reduction was calculated by subtracting the remaining number of log cfu per milliliter of treated bacilli from the initial inoculum.in vivo antitubercular activity of ipaantimicrobial agents and chemotherapyspectrum of activity.

the most attractive hit based on m. tuberculosis whole-cell activity and in vitro tolerability fragment f1 or 3-1h-indol-3- ylpropanoic acid also known as indole propionic acid ipa molecular mass 189 gmol logarithm of partition coefficient between n-octanol and water 2.15 hydrogen bond acceptor 2 hydrogen bond donor 2 polar surface area 53 a  was selected for acute toxicity testing in mice.

chemotherapy was initiated at 14 days postinfection and the drug formulations were administered at 100in vivo antitubercular activity of ipaantimicrobial agents and chemotherapyiv 5mgkge06po - 100 mgkg pegpo - 100 mgkg cmc1.e051.e04 mic90mic501.e031.e02048 12 16 20 24time hfig 4 concentration-time profile of indole propionic acid ipa in plasma following intravenous iv and oral po administration as indicated.

the plasma of control mice that did not receive ipa contained approximately 300 to 1000 ngml of endogenous ipa see discussion.

fragment molecular mass  300 gmol libraries have not been systematically explored for antitubercular activity.

here we screened a collection of 1000 fragments present in the maybridge ro3 library for whole-cell activity against mycobacterium tuberculosis.

thus fragments may have multiple advantages over larger molecules favorable absorption and systemic pharmacokinetic pk properties favorable tissue distribution and better bacterial uptake .here we carried out such a screen of a collection of fragment-sized compounds typically used for structure-based lead discovery  for their activity against m. tuber- culosis.

bactericidal activity determination.

the bactericidal activity of the 29 most potent hits was evaluated by treatment of m. tuberculosis cultures with the compounds at 2 times the cutoff concentration and subsequent cfu enumeration on agar.

we observed that half of the whole-cell-active compounds produced a 100-fold reduction in viabilityand three hits produced a 1000-fold reduction in viability .determination of activity spectrum.

next we assessed the spectrum of activity of the 29 compounds active against m. tuberculosis against the nontuberculous mycobac- terial ntm pathogens m. abscessus and m. avium  as well as staphylococcus aureus and escherichia coli .

a large fraction of fragments active against m. tuberculosis showed activity against the two ntm species .

