s refers to numbers of susceptible hosts and iw refers to number of hosts infected with a wild-type pathogen.the dynamics can be described by the followingset of differential equationswith the full system represented by the following setof differential equationsdsdt 14 bs - sdlw th lm th mthth cdiw th imthdiwdt 14 slw - iwdm th v th c th lmthth ciwmdimd4thdsdt 14 bds th iwdith- sdlwth mthth ciwd1thdt 14 slw - iwdm th v th c th lmthth ciwmd iwm14 iwlm th imlw - iwmd2c th m th vthdt 14 slw - dm th v th cthiwdtwithin-host interference competition can prevent invasion of rare parasites3further variations and justifications on the model are explored in the supplementary information.given the classic si endemic equilibrium condi- tions see condition a we are able to assess the sta- bility of the augmented system on the introduction of a rare mutant which transmits as well as the resi- dent i.e.

we then augment the system by introducing a rare mutant and explore the conditions under which it can invade.classic si modelconsider a population subdivided into individuals susceptible to a particular disease s and individuals infected with that same disease i. assuming a wbdm th v - bththese conditions are locally asymptotically stable when condition a is satisfied see si for workingm  b  m th vdcondition athto these stable conditions we now add a rare mutant parasite and assess whether or not it can invade.introducing rare mutantif a mutant is introduced to the population then a multiply-infected host can occur i.e.

.re su ltstheoretical resultswe were able to derive a simple analytical condition for the invasion of a rare mutant parasite see the section theoretical methods primarily as a func- tion of the cost of transmission associated with being in a mixed infectionbvm 2bdc th m th vthdb th 2v th mthdcondition bthwhen condition b is satisfied the mutant can invade.

assuming a resident parasite has infected a high frequency of hosts a rare invading parasite is more likely to find itself in a mixed infection compared with the resident and hence is more likely to pay the cost of lower transmission to new hosts fenton .the basic building block of most micro-parasitic epidemiological models is the compartmental siparasitology page 1 of 6. c cambridge university press 2017 doi10.1017s003118201700052xbenjamin j. z. quigley and othersmodel keeling and rohani  and we use its classic framework to assess the conditions when a parasite of a different type genotype or species can invade from rare when there is lower total transmis- sion from a mixed infection.

phase plane diagram showing the value of bwmb required for the rare parasite to invade as a function of virulence v and host recovery rate c. for sensible values of b 1 the mechanism preventing invasion of the rare parasite is a form of interference competition i.e.

a stable coex- istence equilibrium containing both susceptible s and infected iw hosts will be established whenm th v th cusingthebacteriumpseudomonasfluorescenssbw25 and its lytic virus bacteriophage ph2 buckling and rainey .

in a previous studys 14b db - mthdm th v th cthd2thleggett et al.

the rate at which thislw 14 biw th bwmiwmlm 14 bim th bwmiwmd3thhappens is described by the force of infection of the wild-type parasite lw biw where b represents parasite transmission rate.

1within-host interference competition can prevent invasion of rare parasitesbenjamin j. z. quigley1 sam p. brown2 helen c. leggett3 pauline d. scanlan4 and angus buckling51 department of zoology university of oxford south parks road oxford ox1 3ps uk2 school of biology georgia institute of technology 311 ferst drive atlanta georgia 30332-0230 usa3 department of genetics university of cambridge cambridge cb2 3eh uk4 apc microbiome institute university college cork t12 yt20 ireland5 department of biosciences university of exeter penryn cornwall tr10 9ex ukreceived 15 november 2016 revised 3 march 2017 accepted 29 march 2017summ ary competition between parasite species or genotypes can play an important role in the establishment of parasites in new host populations.

here we investigate a mechanism by which a rare parasite is unable to establish itself in a host population if a common resident parasite is already present a 'priority effect'.

we develop a simple epidemiological model and show that a rare parasite genotype is unable to invade if coinfecting parasite genotypes inhibit each other's transmission more than expected from simple resource partitioning.

this is because a rare parasite is more likely to be in multiply-infected hosts than the common genotype and hence more likely to pay the cost of reduced transmission.

experiments competing inter- fering clones of bacteriophage infecting a bacterium support the model prediction that the clones are unable to invade each other from rare.

specifically we consider if such popula- tion level priority effects might arise even when they do not occur at the level of the individual host.why might a rare parasite be unable to invade a host population in the presence of an endemic parasite yet is able to outcompete the resident parasite within individual hosts a simple reason is that mixed infec- tions often result in lower levels of transmission than would be expected from single genotypespecies infection based on host resource partitioning as a result of parasite anti-competitor mechanisms or host immunity sugita  dobson  gupta et al.

we therefore determined if the high and low moi-evolved viruses could both be prevented from invading each other from rare under high but not low moi despite the high moi-evolved viruses having a clear within-host advantage.ma teria ls a nd methodstheory methodswe begin with a classic si model at an endemic equi- librium keeling and rohani .

