while the knowledge concerning the reproductive microbiomes and their impact on human health is increasing it is still unclear what can be done to improve women's health in order to improve the health of children and their subsequent adult health see outstanding questions.

reviewwomen and their microbes the unexpected friendshipjessica a. younes1elke lievens rebecca van der westen5 mariya i. petrovacommunities of microbiota have been associated with numerous health out- comes and while much emphasis has been placed on the gastrointestinal niche there is growing interest in the microbiome specific for female repro- ductive health and the health of their offspring.

here we review the role of microbes in female health focusing on the vaginal tract and discuss how male and female reproductive microbiomes are intertwined with concep- tion and how mother-child microbial transfer is a key determinant in infant health and thus the next generation.humans as holobionts given the crucial role of the microbiome in human physiology humans have been described as holobionts see  or communities composed of the host and its symbiotic microbes rather than individuals .

however as there are dynamic shifts across the menstrual cycle and also across the female lifecycle  the role of this microbial community in maintaining vaginal health is still under discussion.the genetic basis for the key role of lactobacilli in the maintenance of vaginal health holds several clues to support the above long-held notion.

while current knowledge on the collective reproductive microbiome remains scarce future studies are needed to focus on the origin community dynamics and identification of biomarker species associated with positive and negative reproductive outcomes.infant health starts with microbial priming in the uterus it is especially interesting that not only our genetic makeup but also our microbial makeup might be determined in utero.

in addition microbial com- munities have been isolated from formerly forbidden sterile niches such as the placenta breast uterus and fallopian tubes strongly suggesting an additional microbial role in women's health.

intriguingly lactobacillus crispatus lactobacillus gasseri lactobacillus iners and lactobacil- lus jensenii appear to dominate the vagina of most healthy women .

yet there are no known genomic explanations why other lactobacillus species with access to the urogenital tract do not colonize and dominate as well such as lactobacillus helveticus or lactobacillus acidophi- lus.

interestingly applica- tion of probiotic lactobacillus brevis cd2 lactobacillus plantarum fv9 and lactobacillus salivarius fv2 preserved sperm motility and viability in vitro by preventing membrane damage induced by reactive oxygen species .

indeed vaginal health of women is often stigmatized and under- researched despite it being recognized as critical for public health overall well-being and human reproduction .

these recently discovered health implications nullify the scheduling advantages and health economic benefits of c-sections and they warrant strong consideration for policy change to prioritize natural childbirth when possible.

nevertheless such studies have brought to the fore many public health issues associated with maternal and infant health as well as healthcare costs and the promise of microbiome management .feeding the newly formed infant microbiome during the first 2 years of life the infant acquires microbes from their diet from the environment and from people surrounding them.

the resulting health implications - not only for the health and wellbeing of women but also for their children - strengthen the notion that microbes are among the most important things that we inherit from our mothers.

of the many studies carried out on the microbial populations of humans most notably using 16s rrna gene high-throughput sequencing very few have focused exclu- sively on women's health.

and depletion of these organisms is associated with several important adverse conditions including but not limited to preterm birth pelvic inflammatory disease increased risk and transmission of sexually1winclove probiotics 11 hulstweg 1032 lb amsterdam the netherlands 2ku leuven centre of microbial and plant genetics kasteelpark arenberg 20 3001 leuven belgium3university of antwerp department ofbioscience engineering antwerp belgium4mcmaster university department offamily medicine 100 main street west hamilton on l8p 1h6 canada 5university medical center groningen department of biomedical engineering antonius deusinglaan 1 9713av groningen the netherlands 6human microbiology and probiotics lawson health research institute 268 grosvenor street london ontario n6a 4v2 canada7departments of microbiology immunology and surgery the university of western ontario16 trends in microbiology january 2018 vol.

