based on taxonomic classification species within the genera vibrio nautella ruegeria marinobacter lentisphaera and flaviobacterium were common representatives within the microbial community associated with e. pallida.regarding the symbiodinium composition associated with e. pallida we detected five symbiodinium types associated with the studied exaiptasia samples .

recent data have shown the importance of the presence of photosymbionts symbiodinium on the bacterial community assemblages associated with e. pallida  however we still lack baseline knowledge about the bacterial diversity and assemblages associated with this sea anemone over wide geographical distributions.

a permutation similarity profile test simprof  was performed to identify clusters of samples with statistically significant internal structure p  0.05. the number of permutations performed was 999 and the resemblance measure used was s17 bray-curtis similarity.symbiodinium composition hosted by exaiptasia pallida anemones to determine whether the patterns of bacterial assemblages associated with exaiptasia pallida across the different geographical sites was correlated with differential compositionof associated symbiodinium we conducted species genetic identification of the microalgal symbionts.

the bacterial communities associated with anemones reared in the laboratory for six years clone cc7 from an unknown florida keys population using instant ocean water were dominated by proteobacteria 68 with similar relative abundances to those detected in many other wild populations.within proteobacteria the class alphaproteobacteria was most commonly dominant in anemones from the north pacific 51 caribbean 53 atlantic 47 four-month lab rearedshortlab 58 and six-year lab rearedcc7 78 populations .gammaproteobacteria and alphaproteobacteria were equally common in the eastern pacific 44 and 40 and the commercial pet store 48 and 44 anemone populations.gammaproteobacteria was found to be most common in central pacific anemone samples 53. the anemones from the outdoor sea water system at the kml that were dominated by firmicutes also had a very distinct group of proteobacteria represented mainly by deltaproteobacteria 45.by examining the composition and structure of the bacterial community associated with e. pallida based on otus we detected considerable differences among populations and geographical locations.

it is expected that the metabolic contribution from symbiodinium to the anemone host has an effect structuring the associated bacterial community compared with aposymbiotic anemones lacking symbiodinium but differential symbiodinium species composition may not drive further changes of anemone microbiomes.when examined at the phylum level bacterial diversity and abundance associated with the cosmopolitan sea anemone e. pallida are broadly conserved across geographic localities with samples containing largely proteobacteria and bacteroides.

moreover changes in the microbial community structure were revealed after rearing specimens of e. pallida in captivity within a period of just four months supporting the idea that differences in aquatic environments have a strong effect on shaping associated bacterial assemblages at the species level.the finding of vibrio tubiashii as the most ubiquitous bacteria associated with exaiptasia pallida found in 75 of all samples was interesting as this bacterium was recognized as a significant pathogen of several species of bivalve larvae in the 60's  .

to address this problem we analyzed whether the bacterial community associated with the cosmopolitan and model sea anemone exaiptasia pallida shows specific patterns across worldwide populations ranging from the caribbean sea and the atlantic and pacific oceans.

when examined at the phylum level bacterial diversity and abundance associated with e. pallida are broadly conserved across geographic space with samples containing largely proteobacteria and bacteroides.

our findings suggest that environmental settings not host specificity seem to dictate bacterial community structure associated with this sea anemone.

the examination of the previously uncharacterized bacterial community associated with the cnidarian sea anemone model e. pallida is the first global-scale study of its kind.how to cite this article brown et al.

in many marine invertebrates bacteria associated withhost epithelium have also been shown to play a pivotal role in host development .

likewise the e. pallida model system could benefit investigations regarding the influence of the associated microbiota on physiologicaldevelopmental and disease-resistant host cnidarian phenotypes.

in the current study we characterized the composition structure and specificity patterns of microbial communities associated with the sea anemone e. pallida from worldwide populations using samples from the caribbean sea and the atlantic and the pacific oceans.

prepared 16s library samples were sequenced utilizing roche 454 flx titanium instruments and reagents following manufacturer's guidelines with the goal of examining the diversity richness and abundance of bacterial species associated on the surface and within the tissue of exaiptasia pallida.

proteobacteria dominated the communities 50 associated with samples collected from all wild populations pacific and atlantic oceans caribbean sea.

