seven days later the front upper limbs chest and front portion of the pi-ibs model rats were wrapped with adhesive tape for 1 h. the rats had free access to food and water except when the procedure required deprivation.grouping and administrationtwenty-eight rats were divided into 4 groups with 7 rats per group.

in the present study we observed that the abundance of a. muciniphila was 20-fold lower in the ibs rats than in the normal rats and that the abundance was 234-fold higher in the ibs rats that received wuji wan treatment.

the control rats were handled identically to the other rats except that saline was instilled instead of 4 acetic acid.

during the experiment the rats in the control group were left undisturbed in their home cages in a separate room whereas the other three groups of rats were housed in individual cages one cage per rat.

 ying chen1  1  zipeng gong2  1  qing yang1  yujie li1  shuangrong gao1  yu dong3  1  yajie wang1  xiaogang weng1  qi li1  weiyan cai1 and weijie qiang11 institute of chinese materia medica china academy of chinese medical sciences beijing china 2 provincial key laboratory of pharmaceutics in guizhou province school of pharmacy guiyang medical university guiyang china 3 guang'an men hospital china academy of chinese medical sciences beijing chinaedited by rachel susan poretsky university of illinois at chicagounited statesreviewed bysergio uzzau university of sassari italy amlan kumar patrawest bengal university of animal and fishery sciences indiacorrespondencexiaoxin zhu  these authors have contributedequally to this work.specialty section this article was submitted to systems microbiologya section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 19 july 2017accepted 08 november 2017published 23 november 2017citation chen y xiao s gong z zhu x yang q li y gao s dong y shi z wang y weng x li q cai w and qiang w 2017 wuji wan formula ameliorates diarrhea and disordered colonic motility in post-inflammation irritable bowel syndrome rats by modulating the gut microbiota.front.

our previous studies have demonstrated that a chinese formula wuji wan has the ability to mitigate abdominal pain and diarrhea in pi-ibs rats.

pi-ibs was induced in sprague-dawley rats by enema using 4 acetic acid and restraint stress.

rats were fed water wuji wan extract 630 mgkg or pinaverium bromide 13.5 mgkg.

analysis of the fecal microbiota showed that wuji wan could reverse the reduction in richness of the gut microbiota and significantly increase the relative abundances of akkermansia bacteroides and parasutterella however lactobacillus and prevotella were markedly decreased in the pi-ibs rats.

after acetic acid-induced inflammatory colitis subsides the rats have visceral hypersensitivity and altered defecation patterns which are the typical manifestations of ibs in the absence of detectable disease  .

our previous studied showed that wuji wan could effectively ameliorate abdominal pain colonic motility cm abnormality and visceral hypersensitivity in pi-ibs rats  .

as shown in  after the enema the time of the glass bead output was significantly shortened and the number of fecal pellet outputs over 2 h was significantly increased.impact of wuji wan on weight water content and mucin in fecal pellets shows the wet weights water contents and mucin 2 muc2 levels in the fecal pellets from each group of rats.

no remarkable inflammatory features were observed in the colons of the normal or ibs rats by 40 light microscopy.

compared with the control group the pi-ibs rats showed significantly decreased abundance of zo-1 and occludin and markedly increased abundance of mlck.

in this study after the inflammation subsided the ibs rats suffered colitis cm functional disorder and diarrhea making this animal model appropriate for studying ibs.

