69narrative reviewt2dyogurt affects satiety decreasing adiposityformation of calcium soaps high calcium intake and satiety from high protein and mediating insulin resistance and diabetes riskdairy products have an effect on insulin sensitivity or insulin secretion from the pancreasauthors' own view supported by the following observational studies on yogurt and adiposity 16 18 35 48 49 70-74 meta-analysis of rcts of the effects of dairy on weight loss 75 clinical study on effects of dairy intake on fat loss 19 narrative review on high-fat dairy and cardiometabolic diseases 76authors' own view supported by the following observational studies between yogurt dairy and t2d risk 3 11 74 clinical study on effects of dairy intake on fat loss 63 narrative reviews of protein-induced satiety 77 effects of yogurt on cardiometabolic disease 78 79 and role of vitamins and minerals in t2d prevention 80influence of fermentationobservational studies on yogurt dairy and t2d 81-831 cad coronary artery disease cvd cardiovascular disease rct randomized controlled trial t2d type 2 diabetes.alterations to the gut microbiota affecting insulinemia and glucose regulationprobiotics prevent weight gain or promote weight loss and reduce gut inflammationnarrative review on the microbiota and insulin resistance 84 observational study on dairy intake and insulinemia 85 meta-analysis of rcts on effects of probiotics on glycemic control 86narrative reviews on probiotics the microbiota and health 58 60 observational studies on yogurt intake and weight 36 meta-analysis of rcts on effects of probiotics on lowering lipids and cvd risk factors 87figure 1 suspected mechanisms of action responsible for yogurt's protective cardiometabolic properties.

although this effect has been demonstrated clinically it is very modest 204. although it contributes to a net re- duction in energy balance fecal fat excretion remains very small 7.4 compared with 6.8 and it is unclear whether this is sufficient to promote clinically relevant weight loss 204. however a meta-analysis of 13 calcium supplemen- tation dairy and supplements rcts measuring fecal fat loss concluded that increasing dairy calcium in the diet to 1241 mgd resulted in a 5.2-g increase in fecal fat loss compared with a diet low in dairy calcium 700 mgd 212. in diets with high dairy intake 1200 kcald fecal fat loss would represent a reduced intake of 50 kcald which may promote weight stability and prevent weight regain 212.perspectives on the research agenda and future challengesyogurt is a nutrient-rich fermented dairy product that is part of a healthy diet and lifestyle.

the effects of whole dairy on cmds may be different from the effects of individual dairy nutri- ents and processing techniques may improve nutrient- matrix interactions potentially modifying metabolic effects 88. an example of potential nutrient-matrix interactions in yogurt is illustrated in figure 1.the matrix effect of a food goes beyond the individual nutrients suggesting that the physical structure created by a combination of nutritive components can act indepen- dently of its individual components during digestion and metabolism 88-90. compared with an isolated nutrientyogurt and cardiometabolic diseases 813table 1 examples of mechanisms proposed by authors of key observational studies and reviews on beneficial effects of yogurt and cardiometabolic diseases1with lower t2d riskwu and sun 31meta-analysiscvdyogurt contains calcium vitamin d sphingolipidsand probioticsprobiotic microorganisms support a healthy microbiota reducing risk for cvd by having an effect on weight reductionnarrative review of mechanisms of dairy products on colorectal cancer 44narrative review of role of the microbiota on metabolism 45yogurt interferes with cholesterol synthesisnarrative review of fermented dairy and cvd risk 46mozaffarian 42narrative reviewt2d and cadprobiotics in yogurt act on the microbiota toreduce weight gainferments synthesize vitamin k-2 which can improve insulin sensitivityprospective cohort studies 18 47 48 clinical and animal studies with probiotic yogurt 49 50 narrative review on the microbiota and health 51narrative review of fermented foods and vitamin k 52 placebo-controlled trial of vitamin k-2 supplementation on insulin sensitivity 53sayon-orea et al.

21systematic reviewobesity and metabolic syndromecalcium intake reduces lipogenesis increases lipolysis increases fat oxidation and produces calcium soaps that increase fat excretionprobiotic yogurt bacteria influence gut health reduce inflammation regulate appetite and improve immune responses intestinal barrier function and lipid profilesclinical studies with dairy and adiposity 19 and calcium and fat oxidation 54 narrative reviews on calcium and metabolic health 55 56narrative reviews about probiotics gut health and cardiometabolic diseases 57-60jacques and wang 36systematic reviewweight changeyogurt has higher concentrations of nutrients perserving size than milk and some nutrients may be more bioavailablecalcium whey casein bioactive peptides and fas facilitate fat mass and weight losscalcium promotes lipolysis and lipid oxidation and reduces lipogenesisyogurt is a source of probiotic bacteria which promotes gut microbiota health and weight controlusda national nutrient database narrative review on milk and the metabolic syndrome 61narrative review on dairy and weight 62 clinical study on calcium and dairy on weight loss 19 63narrative review on dairy and weight 62narrative review on the microbiota 64 clinical and animal study with probiotic yogurt 49 animal study on factors that affect the microbiota 65yogurt is more satiating than other foodsclinical studies with yogurt and other foods66-68continuedtable 1 continued salas-salvado et al.

int j obes lond 200529391-7.eales j lenoir-wijnkoop i king s wood h kok fj shamir r prentice a edwards m glanville j atkinson rl.

am j clin nutr 2015101775-82.ruan y sun j he j chen f chen r chen h. effect of probiotics on glycemic control a systematic review and meta-analysis of random- ized controlled trials.

diabetes metab j 201640 12-21.gao z yin j zhang j ward re martin rj lefevre m cefalu wt ye j. butyrate improves insulin sensitivity and increases energy ex- penditure in mice.

n engl j med 20113642392-404.zemel mb richards j mathis s milstead a gebhardt l silva e. dairy augmentation of total and central fat loss in obese subjects.

eur j clin nutr 201064569-77.larsson sc mannisto s virtanen mj kontto j albanes d virtamo j. dairy foods and risk of stroke.

am j clin nutr 20151011216-24.wang h troy l rogers g fox c mckeown n meigs j jacques p. longitudinal association between dairy consumption and changes of body weight and waist circumference the framingham heart study.

int dairy j 200717 641-7.sabeena farvin kh baron cp nielsen ns otte j jacobsen c. an- tioxidant activity of yoghurt peptides part 2 - characterisation of peptide fractions.

j dairy res 201582 36-46.plaisancie p claustre j estienne m henry g boutrou r paquet a leonil j. a novel bioactive peptide from yoghurts modulates expres- sion of the gel-forming muc2 mucin as well as population of goblet cells and paneth cells along the small intestine.

the experts agreed that dairy products do not have a positive association with cvd or diabetes but fer- mented dairy products generally have an inverse association and different types of dairy products may have distinct ef- fects on disease risk.

dairy matrices ex- hibited better capacity to maintain antioxidant activity than water alone 93. a matrix can also be altered during food processing mechanical chemical or biochemical which can impact the bioavailability of nutrients 94. the physical structure of the matrix and the processing methods heat treatment and acidification may considerably impactmilk protein digestion and amino acid availability 95. di- gestion kinetics of amino acids may be regulated by gastric emptying which is closely linked to the physical properties of the food matrix 96. it has been speculated that the yogurt matrix may explain the reduced incidence of t2d in yogurt consumers compared with milk and other dairy products 3 88. further studies comparing yogurt with other fer- mented dairy products are needed to confirm the unique protective nature of the yogurt matrix against cmd.

b-casein k-casein and a-casein proteins have specific health effects figure 2 145.ace-inhibitory peptides are the most widely studied bio- active peptides in milk and fermented milk 98 150. ace- inhibitory activity has been identified in 50 sequences of bioactive peptides derived from casein which are thought to be responsible for the hypotensive properties of dairy particularly the tripeptides isoleucine-proline-proline and valine-proline-proline 129 149. a meta-analysis of 30 randomized clinical trials investigating the effects of lacto- tripeptide ingestion on blood pressure suggested that they may be a positive treatment for blood pressure particularly for japanese individuals however inconsistencies between studies generated through a strong publication bias should be considered 151. although an overall inverse associa- tion between dairy intake and hypertension has been ob- served 152 this effect has not been consistently found in the yogurt dairy subgroup 153. it should be noted that although the ace-inhibitory mechanisms of bioactive peptides have been widely investigated and provide a case for yogurt's antihypertensive effects the doses used in clin- ical trials are likely much higher than could be consumed from yogurt leaving us to question its clinical relevance.

