paralarvae reared in captivity with artemia showed a depletion of bacterial diversity particularly after day 5 when almost half the bacterial species present on day 0 were lost and two bacterial families mycoplasmataceae and vibrionaceae dominated the microbial community.

paralarvae caught close to the shore were found to have an even representation of bacterial families similar to that of the zooplankton whereas the gi of samples collected away from the shore 4 suckers were enriched with species of the family comamonadaceae in both upwelling systems figure 4. the same interpretation can be drawn from the direction of the vectors dml and comamonadaceae figure 2 pointing towardtable 3  averaged number of reads reads taxa identified and percentage of bacterial reads  classified to different taxonomic levels.the oldest paralarvae in the wild thus showing that the main differences in the oceanic paralarvae were due to an increase in size dml and an incorporation of bacterial species of the family comamonadaceae.distlm results showed that the examined variables accounted for 31.68 octopus 28.12 experiment 26.88 taxonomy and 15.28 run of the total variability found in the microbial communities.

in contrast bacterial diversity increased in wild paralarvae as they developed in the oceanic realm of both upwelling systems likely due to the exposure of new bacterial communities via ingestion of a wide diversity of prey.

2016. vibrionaceae were the main bacterial group identified using rna transcripts of the 16s rrna gene from metabolically active bacterial flora of adult octopuses collected in mexico de la cruz-leyva et al.

pco3 accounted for 8.5 of total variability and was driven by the two dominating bacterial families identified from the paralarvae in aquaculture with positivewild paralarvae had on average more bacterial species andfiltering.

this reduced model also highlighted theimportance of octopus dml and bacterial diversity h' sincebacterial diversity was differentially correlated with size of the paralarvae between the wild and captive samples.core gut microflorarelate analyses revealed the main bacterial families driving both the similarities table 4 and the differences table 5 between the sample groups.

paralarvae reared in captivity with artemia showed a depletion of bacterial diversity particularly after day 5 when almost half of the bacterial species present at day 0 were lost.

in contrast bacterial diversity increased in wild paralarvae as they developed in the ocean figure 4 likely due to the exposure of new bacterial communities via ingestion of a wide diversity of prey roura et al.

47 1737-1746. doi iehata s. valenzuela f. and riquelme c. 2015. analysis of bacterial community and bacterial nutritional enzyme activity associated with the digestive tract of wild chilean octopus octopus mimus gould 1852. aquacult.

remarkably the bacterial diversity of recently hatched paralarvae in captivity was similar to that of wild paralarvae and zooplankton thus suggesting a marked effect of the diet in both the microbial community species diversity and evenness.

this study provides a comprehensive overview of the bacterial communities inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract of o. vulgaris paralarvae and reveals new research lines to challenge the current bottlenecks preventing sustainable octopus aquaculture.keywords octopus vulgaris paralarvae high throughput sequencing gastrointestinal tract microbial communities core gut microflora upwelling ecosystems aquaculture microbiologyintroductionone of the most outstanding issues in microbial ecology of the gastrointestinal gi tract is understanding how biological and physical factors influence gut microbiota and their hosts sullam et al.

2007. for example in marine biomes the percentage of unculturable organisms is estimated to be higher than 97 rappe and giovannoni 2003. culture-independent methods such as the detection and sequencing of the microbial- derived 16s small subunit ribosomal rna rrna gene have been developed to overcome this limitation and have been applied toward the study of hatchery-associated bacterial populations of atlantic cod gadus morhua brunvold et al.

2015 2016. these studies have used denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge techniques to analyse cultured bacterial diversity sampled from adults and eggs of the chilean gould octopus octopus mimus gould 1852 revealing differences between males and females in the microbial families present mostly vibrionaceae and streptococcaceae and their nutritional enzymatic activities iehata et al.

2015. in addition a relationship between egg-associated bacterial diversity and egg health condition dominated by roseobacter was also detected iehata et al.

2011. considering the low throughput approaches used in these studies it is likely that they only account for a fraction of bacterial diversity present within octopods or cephalopods in general.

