received 10 may 2017accepted 14 july 2017 published xx xx xxxxopenzeb2 is a negative regulator of midbrain dopaminergic axon growth and target innervationshane v. hegarty 1 sean l. wyatt2 laura howard2 elke stappers34 danny huylebroeck 34 aideen m. sullivan15  gerard w. o'keeffe 156neural connectivity requires neuronal differentiation axon growth and precise target innervation.

here we show that the transcription factor zeb2 cell-autonomously represses smad signalling to limit midbrain dopaminergic axon growth and target innervation.zeb2 levels are downregulated in the embryonic rodent midbrain during the period of dopaminergic axon growth when bmp pathway components are upregulated.

therefore these findings reveal a new mechanism for the regulation of midbrain dopaminergic axon growth during central nervous system development.the establishment of neural pathways in the developing central nervous system cns requires coordinated regu- lation of neuronal differentiation axon growth and target innervation.

while the molecular basis of mda specification and differentia- tion has been extensively characterised it remains largely unknown whether cell-autonomous mechanisms play a role in regulating axon growth and target innervation of mda neurons in the cns.from a pcr screen to identify new regulators of mda axon growth and innervation we detected theexpression of zinc finger e-box-binding homeobox 2 zeb2 mrna in the midbrain during the period of stri- atal innervation.

in contrast vector-overexpressed zeb2 did not affect basal levels of neurite growth in e14 vm neurons whereas it com- pletely prevented gdf5-promoted neurite growth p  0.05 fig.

we subsequently tested whether bmpr1b was required for neurite growth following zeb2 downregulation by transfecting zeb2-sirna-treated vm cells with bmpr1b-sirna  and found that this com- pletely prevented neurite growth p 0.05 fig.

these findings suggest that zeb2 plays a physiological role in regulating mda axon growth and target innervation in vivo.discussionwe report that zeb2 is a novel negative regulator of mda axon growth and target innervation during embryogen- esis fig.

while we found that zeb2 did not inhibit the neurite growth-promoting effects of gdnf in vitro it would be interesting in future work to disentangle any potential cross-talk between zeb2 and other molecular pathways that promote neurite growth in mda neurons such tgf-bs and wnts.downregulation of zeb2 also facilitated axon growth through a bmp-bmpr-smad mechanism.

neuron 77 83-98 doi2013.srivatsa s. parthasarathy s. molnar z.  tarabykin v. sip1 downstream effector ninein controls neocortical axonal growth ipsilateral branching and microtubule growth and stability.

while the specification and differentiation of these neurons have been extensively studied the molecular mechanisms that regulate midbrain dopaminergic axon growth and target innervation are less clear.

experimental knockdown of zeb2 leads to an increase in bmp-smad-dependent axon growth.

the signals that guide catecholaminergic innervation have been intensively studied in the peripheral nervous system pns where the neurotrophic theory states that limiting amounts of target-derived neurotrophic factors maintain the survival of the required numbers of neurons and promote the growth of innervating axons in their targets .

more recently it has emerged that cell-autonomous signalling operates in these neurons to regulate axon growth and target innervation-.

scale bar as indicated.acts cell-autonomously to control guided migration of cortical gabaergic interneurons  neocortical axon growth myelinogenesis in the cns and remyelination in the pns .

we describe a new function for zeb2 as a negative regulator of mda axon growth and target innervation.resultstemporal-regulation of zeb2 expression and of bmp pathway components in developing mid- brain in vivo.

