con control zdf rats psd zdf rats treated with ps pdz zdf rats treated with ps combining zbpyr administration.in zdf rats with psdacd figure 1a-d and also enhanced learning and memory performance in psdacd zbpyr rats figure 2-3. recent research reported that the gut microbiota in t2dm patients is characterized by a decrease in the abundance of some universal butyrate- producing bacteria and greater number of opportunistic pathogens 44 45. butyrate produced by microbial fermentation is a short-chain fatty acid which can stimulate the pancreatic insulin secretion increase insulin sensitivity and alter insulin signaling 46-48. it exhibits remarkable functions such as anti-obesity alleviation of metabolic stress protection from inflammatory response and improvement of cognition impairment 49 50. roseburia as a major butyrate producer has a positive correlation with mental health 30. and roseburia could be increased by healthy diets to improve insulin sensitivity in obese population 51. moreover decreased coprococcus was found in obese patients with type 2 diabetes 52. coprococcus is significantly negatively correlated with lps in plasma 53. lps can stimulate the secretion of proinflammatory cytokines which ultimately impairs insulin sensitivity and promotes insulin resistance-related metabolic disorders 42. meanwhile the abundance of coprococcus was lower in mice exposed to social stressor compared to controls 54. interestingly our findings pointed that psdacd was correlated to the changes of gut microbiota characterized by reduced abundance of roseburia and coprococcus figure 6b which were consistent with previous studies 44 51- 53 55. zbpyr improved psdcad by increasing the relative abundance of beneficial bacteria i.e.

con control zdf rats psd zdf rats treated with ps pdz zdf rats treated with ps combining zbpyr administration.heat map of the relative abundance of microbial species altered by psdacd and zbpyr treatment showed the differences of gut bacterial compositions compared among con group psd group and pdz group at the genus level figure 5. consistent with previous reports we found that the firmicutes bacteroidetes ratio was higher in psd group compared with control group in addition it was recovered by zbpyr administration in pdz group figure 6a.

we also found that zbpyr protected hippocampal neurons against ab amyloid- and glutamate-induced neurotoxicity 16 17. a recent study performed by our group revealed the characterization of gastrointestinal microbes gm in zdf rat gi tract suggesting that the microbiota might serve as a biomarker of impending or fully manifest t2d and altering the gi microbial communities might be a prospective strategy for treating obesity and t2d 18.hyperactive hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal hpa axis leads to changes of the gut microbial interacting with the brain via the gut-brain axis to modulate brain development stress responses the overall glucose and lipid metabolism 19-22. to elucidate the role of zbpyr in regulating the balance of gut microbiota affecting -induced diabetes-associated cognitive decline psdacd we used male zuker diabetes fatty zdf rat as t2d model which presents developing hyperinsulinemia and hyperglycaemia 23 and is initiated with a mutation in the leptin receptor gene 24 25.resultszbpyr improves glucose metabolism in zdf rats exposed to psthree chronic ps restriction rotation and congest were imposed on zdf rat to establish a model of psdacd while zdf rat without ps was as control.

con control zdf rats psd zdf rats treated with ps pdz zdf rats treated with ps combining zbpyr administration.zbpyr regulates gut microbiota in zdf rats withpsdcadgut microbiota provides a promising perspective to explore the pathological mechanism of psdacd 26-29. to reveal the link between t2d with psdcad and gut microbiota the colons from three groups were sampled and sequenced.

our findings indicate that zbpyr might prevent psdacd by maintaining the compositions of gut microbiota which could be developed as a new therapy for t2d with psdacd.introductiontype 2 diabetes t2d is characterized by chronic hyperglycemia with progressive failure of pancreatic insulin secretion and increased peripheral insulin resistance 1. more recent investigations show that cognitive impairment is found in t2d patients prior to the onset of these conditions 2-4. diabetes-associated cognitive decline dacd as slight cognitive decrements is generally thought across species to a central nervous systems cns complication of diabetes 5-7. thedevelopment of dacd is a complex process involving genetic susceptibility and environmental factors 8 9 yet the mechanisms have not been fully .the immediate psychosocial stress ps is not thought to be the problem affecting health however chronic activation of ps is considered to be the key 10. chronic psychosocial stress increased the incidence of approaching impaired glucose tolerance to diabetes 11. previous reports the mechanism as that insulin sensitivity is declined and insulin resistance is enhanced under the control of the hypothalamus the limbic systemtable 1 mean body weight g of rats in each groupof the emotional loop 12 13. however the exact mechanism of insulin signal transduction disorders inducing cognitive dysfunction is not well established.

zbpyr improved learning and memory performance impairments enhanced brain leptin stimulating insulin signaling and prevented gsk3b overactivity which disclosed that the benefit of zbpyr to dacd may be by increasing dendritic spine density and reducing the injury factors of brain leptin and insulin signaling pathway 15. in this study zucker diabetic fatty zdf rat harboring a missense mutation fatty fa in the leptin receptor gene lepr 24 was used to determine whether zbpyr improves cognitive decline by regulating gut microbiota.

all animal experiments were conducted in accordance with the national institutes of health guide for the care and useof laboratory animals at dalian medical university dalian china which were approved by the animal ethics committee of dalian medical university permit number syxk liao 2008-0002.experimental protocolafter 1 week acclimatization the obese zdf rats were randomly distributed in 3 groups n3 each zdf control group -induced diabetes- associated cognitive decline psd group and ps combined zbpyr administration pdz group.

and an underrepresentation of lachnospiraceae were found in the fecal microbiota of 37 patients with depression 33.it is well known that chronic psychological stress is associated with enhanced vulnerability to metabolic disturbance obesity insulin resistance and t2dm through hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal hpa axis hyperactivity 11 34. over the past decade an abundance of evidence indicated that diabetes and obesity are two metabolic diseases with insulin resistance and a low- grade inflammation 35-40. several studies showed that metabolic endotoxemia controls the inflammatory tone obesity and diabetes and high-fat diet alters gut microbiota and the plasma concentration of lipopolysaccharide lps 41-43. despite these efforts attempted to clarify the correlation of microbiota nervous system and chronic inflammatory diseases the mechanism is still lacking.our previous study explored the effects of the zbpyr on diabetes-related cognitive decline in db db mice.

during a period of 8 weeks zbpyr was administered by oral gavage at a dose of 0.1 ml10 g body weight in the treatment group while ps and control group were orally administered an equal dose of ultrapure water milli-q integral water purification system millipore corporation billerica ma usa.oral glucose tolerance test and insulin tolerance testthe control and zdf rats were fasted for 14 h overnight followed by conducting an oral glucose tolerance test ogtt with a glucose solution in saline at2 gkg.

since -induced diabetes-associated cognitive decline psdacd adversely influences quality of life in t2d patients 13 developing a prospective strategy for psdacd is of great importance.zibupiyin recipe zbpyr a traditional formula of chinese medicine documented in the book of bujuji written by wu cheng in the qing dynasty is originated from zicheng decoction for clinical therapy of cognitive impairment 14. our previous work has demonstrated that zbpyr improved dacd in dbdb mice effectively 15 which examined the beneficial effects of zbpyr on cognitive impairment and suggested that zbpyr could increase brain leptin improve insulin resistance and ameliorate peripheral high glucose environment.

these results indicated that zbpyr administration evidently improved cognitive decline of zdf rats with psdcad.figure 1 effects of zbpyr on glucose tolerance and insulin resistance in zdf rats.

the relative percentage of roseburia was less in model group than that in control group 0.18 vs. 2.15 figure 6b in contrast greater numbers of roseburia were detected in pdz group compared with psd group 0.53 vs. 0.18 figure 6b.

in the open field test there were significant differences between the rats in con group and psd group but no differences between con group and pdz groupindicating that the model of depressive-like behaviors was successfully established in zdf rats.

compared with psd group there were significant differences in pdz zdf rats with psdacd by zbpyr treatment group of the ogtt and itt p  0.01 but the blood glucose did not recover to normal at the end point figure 1a-1d.

the bacterial imbalance could be ameliorated by zbpyr administration as the firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio was decreased in pdz group con 1.491 psd 1.861 pdz 1.401. at class level we identified a small ''core'' microbiota mainly in the colon including bacilli bacteroidia and clostridia and the relative percentages of these bacteria differ in the different groups shown in figure 4d-4f.figure 3 zbpyr improves the performance of psdacd rats in the morris water maze test.

