enhanced research focus on c. difficile in the aftermath of the c. difficile rt027 outbreaks has revealed other evolutionarily distinct c. difficile lineages in particular c. difficile rt078 nap07-08st-11 that are nowemerging for unknown reasons as significant human pathogens .the one health concept which connects the health of humans to the health of animals and their shared environments represents a relevant framework for under- standing the emergence and spread of pathogens.

we explored the phylogenetic structure of c. difficile rt078 by generating a core genome maximum likelihood phylogeny that included the 247 c. difficile rt078 strains and the reference genome of c. difficile m120 n 248 .

the absence of accessory genes unique to either group either demonstrates that c. difficile has a stable accessory genome that is host- independent or provides further support for the frequent transmission of c. difficile between host populations.given the high percentage of mobile elements including antimicrobial resistance genes harbored by c. difficile genomes   we next sought to analyze distribution of different args in the pangenome of human and animal strains.

w. knetscha n. kumarb s. c. forsterbcd t. r. connore h. p. browneb c. harmanusa i. m. sandersa s. r. harrisfturnerg t. morrisg m. perryg f. miyajimah p. robertsh m. pirmohamedh j. g. songeri j. s. weesej a. indrak j. corverarupniklm b. w. wrenn t. v. rileyop e. j. kuijpera t. d. lawleybasection experimental bacteriology department of medical microbiology leiden university medical centerleiden netherlandsbhost-microbiota interactions laboratory wellcome trust sanger institute hinxton united kingdomccentre for innate immunity and infectious diseases hudson institute of medical research clayton victoriaaustraliaddepartment of molecular and translational sciences monash university clayton victoria australiaecardiff school of biosciences sir martin evans building cardiff united kingdom fpathogen genomics wellcome trust sanger institute hinxton united kingdom gpublic health wales microbiology wales united kingdomhinstitute of translational medicine university of liverpool liverpool united kingdomidepartment of veterinary science and microbiology the university of arizona tucson arizona usajdepartment of pathobiology canada veterinary college university of guelph guelph canadakinstitute of medical microbiology and hygiene osterreichische agentur fur gesundheit und ernahrungssicherheit ages vienna austrialfaculty of medicine university of maribor maribor sloveniamnational laboratory for health environment and food maribor sloveniandepartment of pathogen molecular biology london school of hygiene and tropical medicine university of london london united kingdomodepartment of microbiology pathwest laboratory medicine queen elizabeth ii medical centre western australia australiapmicrobiology  immunology school of pathology  laboratory medicine the university of western australia western australia australiaabstract the emergence of clostridium difficile as a significant human diarrheal pathogen is associated with the production of highly transmissible spores and the acquisition of antimicrobial resistance genes args and virulence factors.

unlike the hospital-associated c. difficile rt027 lineage the community-associated c. difficile rt078 lineage is isolated from both humans and farm animals however the geo- graphical population structure and transmission networks remain unknown.

c. difficile rt078 is commonly isolated from both humans and farm animals  and is increasingly recognized as a causative agent of both health care- and community-associated c. difficile infection cdi .

nevertheless the exact evolutionary and epidemiological relationships between human and animal c. difficile rt078 strains remain unknown due to the lack of discriminatory power of these typing methods and the clonal nature of c. difficile lineages.

recently using whole-genome phylogeny we reported that asymptomatic farmers and their pigs can be colonized with clonal c. difficile rt078 isolates demonstrating evidence for spread between animals and humans .materials and methodscollection of c. difficile strains.

c. difficile laboratories worldwide were asked to send a diverse representation of their c. difficile 078 collections to the lawley laboratory hosted at the wellcome trust sanger institute.

the genomes of 182 strains designated c. difficile rt078 nap07- 08st-11 by pcr ribotyping  were sequenced and combined with our previous collection of 65 strains of c. difficile rt078  making a total of 247 strains analyzed in this study.

here we demonstrated that c. difficile rt078 has spread multiple times between continents in particular between north america and europe highlighting that c. difficile emergence and spread is a global issue.

here we applied whole-genome phylogenetic analysis of 248 c. difficile rt078 strains from 22 countries.

our results demonstrate limited geographical clustering for c. difficile rt078 and extensive coclustering of human and animal strains thereby revealing a highly linked intercontinental transmission network between humans and animals.

comparative whole-genome analysis reveals indistinguishable accessory genomes between human and animal strains and a variety of antimicrobial resistance genes in the pangenome of c. difficile rt078.

thus bidirectional spread of c. difficile rt078 between farm animals and humans may represent an unappreciated route dissemi- nating antimicrobial resistance genes between humans and animals.

