gating strategy and representative facs plots mesenteric lymph nodes sample for identifying t cell subsets.a among cd3cd4 t cells the percentage of tregs foxp3cd25 th1 cells t-bet th17 cells rorgt and th2 cells gata-3 was identified.

both short- and long-chain b2-1-fructans enhanced t-helper 1 cells in pps whereas only short-chain b2-1-fructans increased regulatory t cells and cd11b-cd103- dendritic cells dcs in the mln.

for example short-chain b2-1-fructans have been demonstrated to increase iga secretion and production of il-10 and interferon-g by cd4 t cells from peyer's patches pps in mice   whereas long-chain b2-1-fructans induced higher numbers of dendritic cells in pps and greater ex vivo secretion of il-2 il-10 and interferon-g from spleen and mesenteric lymph node mln cells after administration to rats .

b percentages of naive cd44locd62lhi memory cells cd44hicd62lhi and effector cells cd44hicd62llo among cd3cd4 and cd3cd8 cells.

in addition the percentage of cd69 cells was identified among cd3cd4 and cd3cd8 cells.figure s3  facs plots b cells and dendritic cells dcs.

in conclusion support of immunity is determined by the chemical structure of b2-1-fructans and is partially microbiota independent.keywords b2-1-fructans prebiotics gut microbiota mucosal immunology germ-free miceintroductionthe intestinal tract contains the largest pool of immune cells in the body which are separated by only a single layer of epithelial cells from an enormous amount of environmental stimuli including the gut microbiota and dietary components .

cells were stained with fixable viability dye efluor 50 ebioscience vienna austria to exclude dead cells.

in addition in mlns short- chain b2-1-fructan but not long-chain b2-1-fructan treatmentresulted in higher percentages of treg cells p  0.05 and cd4 t cells expressing the activation marker cd69 p  0.05. next we assessed the influence of b2-1-fructan treatment on b-cells in these tissues.

percentage of cells stained with isotype control was subtracted to determine the percentage of true positive cells.

in addition metabolites produced after fermentation of b2-1-fructans by commensal gut bacteria include short-chain fatty acids scfas which dampen inflammatory responses by binding to g protein-coupled receptors gpr41 gpr43 and gpr109a expressed on different types of immune cells -.

recently we also demonstrated that b2-1-fructans can stimulate immune cells directly in vitro via activating pattern recognition receptors such as toll-like receptors tlrs .

this direct effect on immune cells in vitro is stronger with higher dp b2-1- fructans than with shorter dp b2-1-fructans.

red blood cells in spleen samples were lysed with a hypo- tonic lysis buffer.

aspecific binding to fc receptors was prevented by incubating the cells with anti-cd1632 clone 93 biolegend uithoorn the netherlands for 15 min on ice.

for extracellular staining cells were incubated with the desired mixture of antibodies for 30 min on ice.

